 Item 1A. Risk Factors 

In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company. It is possible that our business, financial condition, liquidity, cash flows, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Certain of these risks could also adversely affect the company's reputation. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could also adversely affect our business and reputation. 

Risks Related to Our Business 

&#8226; The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our business and operations. We are currently unable to predict the full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic or any future pandemic, epidemic, or similar public health threat will adversely impact our business and operations in the future. 

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to burden healthcare systems worldwide. The focus of resources on COVID-19, widespread protective measures implemented to control the spread of COVID-19, and the resulting strain on global transportation, manufacturing, and labor markets have negatively impacted development, manufacturing, supply, distribution, and sales of our medicines. 

Although in-person interactions with healthcare professionals have largely resumed, we continue to see a lack of "normal" access and fewer in-person interactions by patients and our employees with healthcare professionals. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to develop, we may decide to halt such in-person interactions in the future and, in those cases, expect to resume such interactions as it is safe to do so and in compliance with applicable guidance and requirements. 

The strain on global transportation, logistics, and labor markets caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and an increase in overall demand in our industry for certain materials resulting in changed buying patterns and constrained supply have had, and may continue to have, a number of impacts on our business, including increased costs to provide a consistent supply of our medicines where they are needed and disruptions and shortages in the supply of our medicines. These factors may negatively affect our results of operations. 

We also face risks and uncertainties related to our COVID-19 therapies, including heightened regulatory scrutiny of our manufacturing practices, quality assurance, and similar regulations, restrictions on administration that limit widespread and timely access to our therapies, and risks related to handling, return, and/or refund of product after delivery by us. In addition, expedited authorization processes have allowed restricted distribution of products with less than typical safety and efficacy data, and additional data that become available may call into question the safety or effectiveness of our COVID-19 therapies. The availability of superior or competitive therapies, including therapies that can be administered more easily, or preventative measures such as vaccines, coupled with the unpredictable nature of pandemics, have and could further negatively impact or eliminate demand for our COVID-19 therapies. We also expect that additional revenue from the sale of bamlanivimab and etesevimab after the first quarter of 2022 will be limited. Mutations or the spread of other variants of the coronavirus have in some cases impacted the effectiveness of our COVID-19 therapies, and may further render our therapies more or less effective or ineffective. Furthermore, the FDA has revised, and may in the future revise, any EUA for our COVID-19 therapies in response to the prevalence of variants against which our therapies have varying degrees of efficacy. These and other risks related to COVID-19 could affect other aspects of our business or intensify other risks inherent in our business, including potentially resulting in delays or denials in the approval or launch of other products or indications. 

It remains difficult to reasonably assess or predict the full extent of the ongoing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on us. The degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic continues to affect us will depend on developments that are highly uncertain and beyond our knowledge or control, including, but not limited to, the duration and severity of the pandemic, the actions taken to reduce its transmission, including widespread availability and efficacy of vaccines, the introduction and spread of new variants of the coronavirus that may be resistant to currently approved vaccines, the continuation of existing or implementation of new government restrictions and the speed with which, and extent to which, more stable economic and operating conditions resume. Should the COVID-19 pandemic, or any future pandemic, epidemic, or similar public health threat, and any associated supply chain disruption, labor 

market impact, recession, or depression continue for a prolonged period, these risks could be exacerbated, causing further impact on our business and operations in the future. 

&#8226; Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and highly uncertain; we may not succeed in developing, licensing, or acquiring commercially successful products sufficient in number or value to replace revenues of products that have lost or will soon lose intellectual property protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. 

There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development, the introduction of new products, and business development activities to enhance our product pipeline. 

There is a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market can take over a decade and often costs in excess of $2 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including in later stages after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals or payer reimbursement or coverage, limited scope of approved uses, label changes, changes in the relevant treatment standards or the availability of new or better competitive products, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies establish high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products and indications. Delays and uncertainties in drug approval processes can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict revenue growth rates of new products and indications. 

We cannot state with certainty when or whether our products now under development will be approved or launched; whether, if initially granted, such approval will be maintained; whether we will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire additional product candidates or products; or whether our products, once launched, will be commercially successful. 

We must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or brand extensions for existing products, both through our internal efforts and our business development activities, sufficient both to cover our substantial research and development costs and to replace revenues that are lost as profitable products lose intellectual property exclusivity or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short-term or long-term would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. 

We engage in various forms of business development activities to enhance our product pipeline, including licensing arrangements, co-development agreements, co-promotion arrangements, joint ventures, acquisitions, and equity investments. There are substantial risks associated with identifying successful business development targets and consummating related transactions. Increased focus on business combinations in our industry, including by the Federal Trade Commission, and heightened competition for attractive targets has and could continue to delay, jeopardize or increase the costs of our business development activities. In addition, failures or difficulties in integrating or retaining new personnel or the operations of the businesses, products, or assets we acquire (including related technology, commercial operations, compliance programs, manufacturing, distribution, and general business operations and procedures) may affect our ability to realize the expected benefits of business development transactions and may result in our incurrence of substantial asset impairment or restructuring charges. We also may fail to generate the expected revenue and pipeline enhancement from business development activities due to developments outside our control, including unsuccessful clinical trials, issues related to the quality, integrity, or broad applicability of data, regulatory impediments, and commercialization challenges. Accordingly, business development transactions may not be completed in a timely manner (if at all), may not result in successful commercialization of any product, and may give rise to legal proceedings or regulatory scrutiny. 

See Item 1, "Business - Research and Development - Phases of New Drug Development" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Late-Stage Pipeline," for more details about our current product pipeline. 

&#8226; We depend on products with intellectual property protection for most of our revenues, cash flows, and earnings; we have lost or soon will lose effective intellectual property protection for a number of our products, which has resulted and is likely to continue to result in rapid and severe declines in revenues. 

A number of our products, including Alimta and Forteo, have recently lost, or soon will lose, significant patent protection and/or data protection in the U.S. as well as in key jurisdictions outside the U.S. We have faced, and remain exposed to, generic competition following the loss of such intellectual property protection. In particular, we expect that the entry of generic competition for Alimta in the U.S. following the loss of patent exclusivity will cause a rapid and severe decline in revenue for the product and have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. 

Certain other significant products no longer have effective exclusivity through patent protection or data protection. For non-biologic products, loss of exclusivity (whether by expiration of legal rights or by termination thereof as a consequence of litigation) typically results in the entry of one or more generic competitors, leading to a rapid and severe decline in revenues, especially in the U.S. For biologics (such as Humalog, Humulin, Erbitux, Cyramza, Trulicity, Taltz, and Emgality), loss of exclusivity may or may not result in the near-term entry of competitor versions (i.e., biosimilars) due to many factors, including development timelines, manufacturing challenges, and/or uncertainties regarding the regulatory pathways for approval of the competitor versions. Generic pharmaceutical companies could also introduce a generic product before resolution of any related patent litigation. 

There is no assurance that the patents we are seeking will be granted or that the patents we hold will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. Moreover, patents relating to particular products, uses, formulations, or processes do not preclude other manufacturers from employing alternative processes or marketing alternative products or formulations that compete with our patented products. In addition, competitors or other third parties may assert claims that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them, or allege a third-party right of ownership in our existing intellectual property. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Other Matters - Patent Matters," and Item 1, "Business - Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights," for more details. 

&#8226; Our long-term success depends on intellectual property protection; if our intellectual property rights are invalidated, circumvented, or weakened, our business will be adversely affected. 

Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover or acquire, develop, and commercialize innovative new medicines. Without strong intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate the returns necessary to support our significant investments in research and development, as well as the other expenditures required to bring new drugs to the market. Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and is subject to change over time, depending on local laws and regulations. Changes to such laws and regulations could reduce protections for our innovative products. In the U.S., in addition to the process for challenging patents set forth in the BPCIA, which applies to biologic products, the Hatch-Waxman Act provides generic companies substantial incentives to seek to invalidate our patents covering pharmaceutical products. As a result, we expect that our U.S. patents on major pharmaceutical products, including biologics, will continue to be routinely challenged in litigation and may not be upheld. In addition, a separate IPR process currently allows competitors to seek invalidation of patents at the USPTO without the protections of the BPCIA or Hatch-Waxman Act. The use of IPR proceedings after the institution of litigation pursuant to the BPCIA or Hatch-Waxman Act is currently a topic of debate among legislators and the future ability of our competitors to use IPR proceedings as an alternative to Hatch-Waxman Act or BPCIA litigation procedures to challenge our patents remains uncertain. However, if our patents are challenged through this expedited review process, even if we prevail in demonstrating the validity of our patent, our win provides limited precedential value at the PTAB and no precedential value in federal district court, meaning the same patent can be challenged by other competitors. We face many generic manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as well. The entry of generic competitors typically results in rapid and severe declines in revenues. In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in our being unable to market a product in a particular territory or being required to pay significant damages for past infringement or royalties on future sales. In addition, intellectual property protection in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. is weak and we face additional risks to our intellectual property rights, including competition with generic or counterfeit versions of our products relatively shortly after launch. See Item 1, "Business - 

Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights," and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16: Contingencies," for more details. 

&#8226; We and our products face intense competition from multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and lower-cost generic and biosimilar manufacturers, and such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

We compete with a large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and generic pharmaceutical companies and, in many cases, our products compete against the leading products of one or more of our competitors. To compete successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical needs. Our product revenues can be adversely affected by the introduction by competitors of branded products that are perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic or biosimilar versions of our branded products, and by generic or biosimilar versions of other products in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. Our revenues can also be adversely affected by treatment innovations that eliminate or minimize the need for treatment with our drugs. 

Regulation of generic and biosimilar products varies around the world and such regulation is complex and subject to ongoing interpretation and implementation by regulatory agencies and courts. Particularly for biosimilars, recent health authority guidelines and legislative proposals could make it less burdensome for competitor products to enter the market and further incentivize uptake of biosimilars. In the U.S., the FDA has begun issuing "interchangeability" designations for biosimilar products, which could &#8211; subject to state law requirements &#8211; enable pharmacies to substitute biosimilars for innovator biological products. Given the importance of biologic products to our clinical-stage pipeline, such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business. See Item 1, "Business - Competition" and "Business - Research and Development," for more details. 

In addition, we rely on our ability to attract, engage, and retain highly qualified and skilled personnel in order to compete effectively. To continue to commercialize our products, and advance the research, development, and commercialization of additional modalities and product candidates, we may need to expand our workforce, including in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, and sales and marketing, both in and outside the U.S. We continue to face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, academic and other research institutions, as well as employers near our manufacturing and other facilities, which has and may continue to increase our labor costs. Our ability to attract and retain talent in our increasingly competitive environment may be further complicated by evolving employment trends arising from the COVID-19 pandemic, including vaccination mandates, increased preferences for remote, alternative, or flexible work arrangements, and other factors. Our failure to compete effectively for talent could negatively affect sales of our current and any future approved products, and could result in material financial, legal, commercial, or reputational harm to our business. 

&#8226; Failure, inadequacy, breach of, or unauthorized access to, our IT systems or those of our third-party service providers, unauthorized access to our confidential information, or violations of data protection laws, could each result in material harm to our business and reputation. 

A great deal of confidential information owned by us or our business partners or other third parties is stored in our information systems, networks, and facilities or those of third parties. This includes valuable trade secrets and intellectual property, clinical trial information, corporate strategic plans, marketing plans, customer information, and personally identifiable information, such as employee and patient information (collectively, confidential information). We also rely, to a large extent, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems, infrastructure, and hardware (together, IT systems), some of which are within our control and some of which are within the control of third parties, to accumulate, process, store, and transmit large amounts of confidential information and other data. We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations around the world related to privacy, data protection, and data security. Maintaining the security, confidentiality, integrity and availability of our IT systems and confidential information is vital to our business. Our failure, or the failure of our third party service providers, to protect and maintain the security, confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our (or their) IT systems and our confidential information and other data could significantly harm our reputation as well as result in significant costs, including those related to fines, litigation, and obligations to comply with applicable data breach laws. 

IT systems are vulnerable to system inadequacies, operating failures, service interruptions or failures, security breaches, malicious intrusions, or cyber-attacks from a variety of sources. Cyber-attacks are growing in their frequency, sophistication, and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect, mitigate, or prevent. Cyber-attacks come in many forms, including the deployment of harmful malware, exploitation of vulnerabilities (including those of third-party software or systems), denial-of-service attacks, the use of social engineering, and other means to compromise the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our IT systems, confidential information, and other data. Breaches resulting in the compromise, disruption, degradation, manipulation, loss, theft, destruction, or unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information, or the unauthorized access to, disruption of, or interference with our IT systems, products and services, can occur in a variety of ways, including but not limited to, negligent or wrongful conduct by employees or others with permitted access to our systems and information, or wrongful conduct by hackers, competitors, certain governments or nation-states, or other current or former company personnel. Our third-party partners, including third-party providers of data hosting or cloud services, as well as suppliers, distributors, alliances, and other third parties with whom we may share data, face similar risks, which could affect us directly or indirectly. The healthcare industry has been and continues to be a target for cyber-attacks, and the number of threats has only increased over time. Numerous federal agencies that monitor and regulate internet and cyber-crime have issued guidance, alerts and directives warning of software vulnerabilities that require immediate patching, malicious actors targeting healthcare related systems and nation-state sponsored hacking designed to steal valuable information. 

The failure, inadequacy, or breach of our IT systems or business processes, the compromise, disruption, degradation, manipulation, loss, theft, destruction, or unauthorized access to, disclosure or use of, confidential information, or the unauthorized access to, disruption of, or interference with our products and services that rely on IT systems or business processes, could impair our ability to secure and maintain intellectual property rights; result in a product manufacturing interruption or failure, or in the interruption or failure of products or services that rely on IT systems or business processes; damage our operations, customer relationships, or reputation; result in unfavorable clinical trial results by virtue of incorrect or unreliable data; and/or cause us to lose trade secrets or other competitive advantages. Unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information could expose us to significant sanctions for violations of data privacy laws and regulations around the world and could damage public trust in our company. In addition, IT system security in jurisdictions outside the U.S. is weaker and may result in additional costs, uncertainties, and risks. 

To date, system inadequacies, operating failures, unauthorized access, service interruptions or failures, security breaches, malicious intrusions, cyber-attacks, and the compromise, disruption, degradation, manipulation, loss, theft, destruction, or unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information have not had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. We maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business, or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our IT systems. We continue to implement measures in an effort to protect, detect, respond to, and minimize or prevent these risks and to enhance the resiliency of our IT systems; however, these measures may not be successful and we may fail to detect or remediate security breaches, malicious intrusions, cyber-attacks, or other compromises of our systems. Any of these events could result in material financial, legal, commercial, or reputational harm to our business. 

&#8226; Significant economic downturns or international trade and other global disruptions or disputes could adversely affect our business and operating results. 

While pharmaceuticals have generally been less sensitive to overall economic cycles, prolonged economic slowdowns could lead to decreased utilization of our products, affecting our sales volume. Declining tax revenues attributable to economic downturns increase the pressure on governments to reduce health care spending, leading to increasing government efforts to control drug prices and utilization. Additionally, some customers, including governments or other entities reliant upon government funding, may be unable to pay for our products in a timely manner. Also, if our customers, suppliers, or collaboration partners experience financial difficulties, we could experience slower customer collections, greater bad debt expense, and performance defaults by suppliers or collaboration partners. Similarly, in the event of a significant economic downturn, we could have difficulty accessing credit markets. 

Significant portions of our business are conducted in Europe, including the United Kingdom, in Asia, including China, and in other international geographies. Trade and other global disputes and interruptions in international relationships, including related to tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, the imposition of trade sanctions or similar restrictions by the U.S. or other governments, unrest or war, as well as pandemic diseases, such as COVID-19, affect our ability to do business. For example, tensions between the U.S. and China have led to a series of tariffs and sanctions being imposed by the U.S. on imports from China mainland, as well as other business restrictions. These and similar events could adversely affect us, or our business partners or customers. 

&#8226; Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income, and reputation. 

Pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. After approval, the products are used for longer periods of time by much larger numbers of patients. Accordingly, we and others (including regulatory agencies and private payers) collect extensive information on the efficacy and safety of our marketed products by continuously monitoring the use of our products in the marketplace. In addition, we or others may conduct post-marketing clinical studies on efficacy and safety of our marketed products. New safety or efficacy data from both market surveillance and post-marketing clinical studies may result in product label changes or other measures that could reduce the product's market acceptance and result in declining sales. Serious safety or efficacy issues that arise after product approval have, and could in the future, result in voluntary or mandatory product recalls or withdrawals from the market. Safety issues have, and could in the future, result in costly product liability claims. See also " - The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our business and operations. We are currently unable to predict the full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic or any future pandemic, epidemic, or similar public health threat will adversely impact our business and operations in the future." 

&#8226; We face litigation and investigations related to our products, how we price our products, and how we commercialize our products; we could face large numbers of claims in the future, which could adversely affect our business, and we are self-insured for such matters. 

We are subject to a substantial number of product liability claims involving various current and historical products, litigation and investigations related to how we commercialize and/or how we price our products, including relating to our 340B drug pricing program, as well as contractual disputes. See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16, Contingencies" for more information on our current product liability litigation, as well as pricing litigation, investigations, and inquiries. Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, we are and could in the future become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for our previous, current, or future products, or to further litigation or investigations, including related to pricing or other commercial practices. Such matters could affect our results of operations or require us to recognize substantial charges to resolve and, if involving marketed products, could adversely affect sales of the product. Due to a very restrictive market for liability insurance, we are self-insured for litigation liability losses for all our currently marketed products, as well as for litigation or investigations related to our pricing practices or other similar matters. 

&#8226; Manufacturing and supply chain difficulties, disruptions, or shortages could lead to product supply problems. 

Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and highly regulated. Manufacturing or quality assurance difficulties at our facilities or contracted facilities, the failure or refusal of a supplier or contract manufacturer to supply contracted quantities, or increases in demand on a supplier could result in delays and disruptions in the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of our products and/or product shortages, leading to lost revenue. Further, global transportation and logistics challenges, as well as tight labor markets, have caused, and in the future may cause, delays in, and/or increase costs related to, distribution of our medicines, the construction or other acquisition of manufacturing capacity, procurement activity, and supplier or contract manufacturer arrangements. Such difficulties, disruptions, or challenges could result from quality, oversight, or regulatory compliance problems; natural disasters or pandemic disease; equipment, mechanical, data, or information technology system vulnerabilities, such as system inadequacies, inadequate controls or procedures, operating failures, service interruptions or failures, security breaches, malicious intrusions, or cyber-attacks from a variety of sources; labor shortages; contractual disputes with our suppliers and contract manufacturers; or inability to obtain single-source or other raw or intermediate materials. In addition, difficulties in predicting or variability in demand for our 

products and indications and the very long lead times necessary for the expansion and regulatory qualification of pharmaceutical manufacturing capacity from time to time result in difficulty meeting demand for, or disruptions, shortages, and higher costs in the supply of, our products. See Item 1, "Business - Raw Materials and Product Supply," for more details. 

&#8226; Reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect our business. 

We rely on third parties, including suppliers, distributors, alliances, and collaborations with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third-party service providers, for selected aspects of product and clinical development, manufacturing, commercialization, hosting of, and support for, information technology systems, product distribution, and certain financial transactional processes. As examples, we outsource the day-to-day management and oversight of some of our clinical trials to contract research organizations and the distribution of our products through logistics providers. Outsourcing these functions involves the risk that the third parties may not perform to our standards or legal requirements; may not produce reliable results; may not perform in a timely manner; may not maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of confidential and proprietary information relating to us, our clinical trial subjects, or patients; may experience disruption or fail to perform due to information technology system vulnerabilities, breaches, cyber-attacks, or inadequate controls or procedures; may be unable to satisfy their commitments to us in which case we may not be able to achieve acceptable alternative sourcing; or may fail to perform at all. The foregoing risks may be heightened in jurisdictions outside the U.S., where we may face additional costs, uncertainties, and risks. Failure of these third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, confidentiality, privacy, security, or other obligations to us, our clinical trial subjects, and our patients could have a material adverse effect on our business. 

Risks Related to Government Regulation 

&#8226; Our business is subject to increasing government price controls and other public and private restrictions on pricing, reimbursement, and access for our drugs, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation or business. 

Public and private payers continue to take aggressive steps to control their expenditures for pharmaceuticals by placing restrictions on pricing and reimbursement for, and patient access to, our medicines. These pressures could continue to negatively affect our future revenues and net income. Governments and private payers worldwide have intensified their scrutiny of, and actions intended to address, pricing, reimbursement, and access to pharmaceutical products. Additional policies, regulations, legislation, or enforcement, including as a result of the regulatory priorities of the current U.S. presidential administration and other regulatory authorities worldwide, could adversely impact our business and revenue. For example, pending legislation in the U.S. could result in government negotiation of the price of some of our medicines, including insulin. Furthermore, restrictive or unfavorable pricing, coverage, or reimbursement determinations for our medicines or product candidates by governments, regulatory agencies, or private payers, such as the recently proposed Alzheimer&#8217;s Monoclonal Antibody NCD, may adversely impact our business and financial results. However, we cannot predict the likelihood, nature, or extent of current and future health care reform efforts. We also may continue to experience potential additional pricing pressures resulting from the financial strain of the COVID-19 pandemic on government-funded healthcare systems around the world. 

For more details, see Item 1, "Business - Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access," Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Other Matters - Trends Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access," and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 16: Contingencies." 

&#8226; Changes in foreign currency rates, interest rate risks, or inflation could materially affect our results of operations. 

As a global company, we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, interest rate risk from our exposure to floating and variable interest rates, and inflation risk from existing and expected rates of inflation in the U.S. and other jurisdictions. While we seek to manage a portion of these exposures through hedging and other risk management techniques, significant fluctuations in currency rates, interest rates, and inflation can have a material impact, either positive or negative, on our 

results of operations. Further, in the event of an extreme devaluation of local currency, the price of our products could become unsustainable in the relevant market. In addition, the discontinuation, modification, or other reform of the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), or the replacement of LIBOR with a different reference rate, could increase our interest expense, decrease our cash flows, and/or require us to amend certain of our existing agreements. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Financial Condition and Liquidity" and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Implementation of New Financial Accounting Standard" for more details. 

&#8226; Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional tax liabilities could increase our income taxes and decrease our net income. 

We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions, and in the course of our business, we make judgments about the expected tax treatment of various transactions and events. Changes in tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, as well as events that differ from our expectations, have affected and may adversely affect our effective tax rates, cash flows, and/or and results of operations. For example, in December 2017, the U.S. enacted tax reform legislation significantly revising U.S. tax laws, and a number of other countries are also actively considering or enacting tax changes. Significant uncertainty currently exists regarding proposed tax policies of the current U.S. presidential administration and Congress, including modifications to certain aspects of the 2017 tax law. In addition, tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we do business routinely examine our tax returns and are intensifying their scrutiny and examinations of profit allocations among jurisdictions, which could unfavorably impact our results of operations. Further, actions taken with respect to tax-related matters by associations such as the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Commission could influence tax laws in countries in which we operate. Modifications to key elements of the current U.S. or international tax framework could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Results of Operations - Executive Overview - Other Matters - Tax Matters" and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 14: Income Taxes," for more details. 

&#8226; Regulatory compliance problems could be damaging to the company. 

The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many companies, including us, have been subject to claims related to these practices asserted by federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities, private payers, and consumers. These claims have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences to us. We are and could in the future become subject to such investigations, the outcomes of which could include criminal charges and fines, penalties, or other monetary or non-monetary remedies, including exclusion from U.S. federal and other health care programs. Such investigations have intensified and may continue to intensify as a result of the regulatory priorities of the current U.S. presidential administration and other regulatory authorities worldwide. In addition, regulatory issues concerning compliance with cGMP, quality assurance, and similar regulations (and comparable foreign regulations) for our products can lead to regulatory and legal actions, product recalls and seizures, fines and penalties, interruption of production leading to product shortages, import bans or denials of import certifications, delays or denials in the approvals of new products or supplemental approvals of current products pending resolution of the issues, and reputational harm, any of which would adversely affect our business. Regulatory compliance and processes in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may also be less predictable and result in additional costs, uncertainties, and risks. See Item 1, "Business - Government Regulation of Our Operations," for more details. 

