 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

In evaluating NVIDIA, the following risk factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Purchasing or owning NVIDIA common stock involves investment risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. Any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. 

Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets 

If we fail to meet the evolving needs of our markets, or to identify new products, services or technologies, our revenue and financial results may be adversely impacted. 

Our accelerated computing platforms address four large markets: Gaming, Data Center, Professional Visualization, and Automotive. These markets experience rapid changes in technology, customer requirements, new product introductions and enhancements, and industry standards. 

Our strategic and business success depends on our ability to: 

&#8226; timely identify emerging industry changes, and develop new or enhance existing products, services and technologies that meet the evolving needs of these markets; 

&#8226; expand the ecosystem for our products and technologies; 

&#8226; accurately forecast demand in our businesses; 

&#8226; meet customer safety and compliance standards, which are subject to change; 

&#8226; manage product, software, and service lifecycles to maintain customer and end user satisfaction; 

&#8226; develop infrastructure needed to scale our business, including related to our acquisitions, customer support, e-commerce and IP licensing capabilities; and 

&#8226; complete technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments for some of the above activities. 

We make considerable investments in research and development and business offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history, which may not produce meaningful revenue for several years, if at all. If we fail to develop new products, services and technologies, or if they do not become widely adopted, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 

Achieving design wins, which is important to our success in several businesses, may involve a lengthy process and depend on our ability to anticipate features and functionality that customers will demand. Unanticipated changes in industry standards or disruptive technological innovation could render our products incompatible with products developed by other companies. If our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry and safety standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. Failure to obtain a particular design win may prevent us from obtaining future design wins in subsequent generations. Furthermore, a design win does not guarantee revenue. 

We cannot ensure that our strategic direction will result in products and technologies that provide value to our customers and partners. If we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, or if we do not appropriately adapt our strategies as market conditions evolve, our business will be harmed. 

Competition in our current and target markets could prevent us from growing our revenue. 

Our target markets remain competitive, and competition may intensify with expanding and changing product and service offerings, industry standards, customer needs, new entrants and consolidations. Our competitors&#8217; products, services and technologies, such as the high-end discrete GPUs offered by Intel and AMD, may be cheaper or provide better functionality or features than ours, which may result in lower than expected selling prices for our products. Some of our competitors operate their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, more comprehensive IP portfolios and patent protections, new designs and more design wins, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. These competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends, more quickly transition their products, and secure sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials during a supply-constrained environment, which could harm our business. In our networking business, some of our customers are also integrated circuit and switch suppliers and have in-house expertise and internal development capabilities similar to ours. Licensing our technology and supporting such customers entails the transfer of IP rights that may enable such customers to develop their own solutions to replace those we are providing. If we are unable to successfully compete and respond to changes in our target markets or introduce new offerings to meet the needs of this competitive environment, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline. 

Risks Related to Demand, Supply and Manufacturing 

If we fail to estimate customer demand properly, there may be a mismatch between supply and demand, and our financial results could be harmed. 

Demand for our products is based on many factors, including our product introductions and transitions, time to market, competitor product releases and announcements, competing technologies, and other factors, all of which can impact the timing and volume of our revenue. We sell many of our products through channel partners, who sell to retailers, distributors, and/or end customers. As a result, the decisions made by our channel partners, retailers and distributors in response to changing market conditions and demand for our products could impact our ability to properly forecast demand. 

GPUs have use cases in addition to their designed and marketed use case, such as for digital currency mining, including blockchain-based platforms such as Ethereum. It is difficult for us to estimate with any reasonable degree of precision the past or current impact of cryptocurrency mining, or forecast the future impact of cryptocurrency mining, on demand for our products. Volatility in the cryptocurrency market, including new compute technologies, price changes in cryptocurrencies, government cryptocurrency policies and regulations, new cryptocurrency standards, and changes in the method of verifying blockchain transactions, have impacted and can in the future impact cryptocurrency mining and demand for our products, and can further impact our ability to estimate demand for our products. Changes to cryptocurrency standards and processes including, but not limited to, the pending Ethereum 2.0 standard may decrease the usage of GPUs for Ethereum mining as well as create increased aftermarket resales of our GPUs, impact retail prices for our GPUs, increase returns of our products in the distribution channel, and may reduce demand for our new GPUs. We have introduced Lite Hash Rate, or LHR, GeForce GPUs with limited Ethereum mining capability and increased the supply of CMP in an effort to address demand from gamers and direct miners to CMP. However, if attempts in the aftermarket to improve the hash rate capabilities of our LHR cards are successful, our gaming cards may become more attractive to miners, increasing demand for our gaming GPUs and limiting our ability to supply our gaming cards to non-mining customers. We cannot predict whether our strategy of using LHR cards and CMP will achieve our desired outcome. In addition, our products may be resold on the unauthorized &#8220;gray market,&#8221; which also makes demand forecasting difficult. Gray market products compete with our distribution channels. 

Consumer and enterprise behavior during the COVID-19 pandemic, such as increased demand for our Gaming, Data Center, and workstation products, has made it more difficult for us to estimate future demand. These challenges may continue in the future when the effects of the pandemic subside. 

Our manufacturing lead times are very long and in some cases, extend to be twelve months or longer, which requires us to make estimates of customers&#8217; future demand. We have revised our process for purchasing supply as a result of the worldwide supply shortages impacting the semiconductor industry. Our inventory and purchase commitments reflect our demand expectations for our future quarters and long-term supply and capacity needs. These conditions could lead to a significant mismatch between supply and demand, giving rise to product shortages or excess inventory. Demand for our products may be perishable or may disappear, which would make our demand forecast more uncertain and cause us to lose market share, perhaps permanently. To shorten shipment lead times, we may build finished products and carry inventory for anticipated demand that does not materialize. We may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments if customers cancel or defer orders or choose to purchase from our competitors. We may write-down our 

inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable value or excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand. 

Situations that may result in excess inventory or related impairments include: 

&#8226; changes in business and economic conditions resulting in decreased consumer confidence, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy and changes in the credit market; 

&#8226; higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements; 

&#8226; new product introductions resulting in less demand for existing products or inconsistent spikes in demand due to unexpected end use cases; 

&#8226; increase in demand for competitive products, including competitive actions; 

&#8226; fluctuations in demand for our products related to cryptocurrency mining; or 

&#8226; decrease in future demand, decrease in the cost of supply chain materials, or changes in the design of future products where we have entered into long-term supply commitments, including prepayments, particularly to the extent we are placing orders well in advance of our historical lead times and/or before the design of those products is final. 

Conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill orders on a timely basis. We may also face supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. If we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. If we fail to fulfill our customers&#8217; orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged. 

In periods of shortages impacting the semiconductor industry and/or limited supply or capacity in our supply chain, as we are in today, we have placed and may continue to place non-cancellable inventory orders in advance of our historical lead times, and pay premiums and/or provide deposits to secure future supply and capacity. For example, while we previously placed orders with approximately six months&#8217; lead time, we have begun placing orders at least twelve months in advance. Our inventory and purchase commitments reflect our demand expectations for our future quarters and long-term supply and capacity needs. However, we may not be able to accurately predict when such periods of shortage will end, nor do we know whether those inventory orders accurately address our current and future demand needs. These actions may increase our product costs and trigger significant excess inventory or other charges if there is a partial or complete reduction in long-term demand for our products or if such demand is served by our competitors, which could negatively impact our gross margins and our overall financial results. 

We depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test, package or design our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business. 

We do not manufacture the semiconductors used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. We depend on foundries to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. We do not assemble, test or package our products, but instead contract with independent subcontractors. We also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements. The design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. While we may enter into long-term supply and capacity commitments, we may not be able to secure sufficient commitments for capacity to address our business needs. We face several risks which could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand and scale our supply chain, negatively impact longer-term demand for our products and services, and adversely affect our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including: 

&#8226; lack of guaranteed supply of wafers, components and capacity or decommitment and potential higher wafer and component prices, from incorrectly estimating demand and failing to place orders with our suppliers with sufficient quantities or in a timely manner; 

&#8226; failure by our foundries or contract manufacturers to procure raw materials or to provide adequate levels of manufacturing or test capacity for our products; 

&#8226; failure by our foundries to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as advanced process node technologies and memory designs needed to manufacture our products; 

&#8226; limited number of global suppliers, foundries, contract manufacturers, assembly and test providers, and memory manufacturers; 

&#8226; loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; 

&#8226; lack of direct control over product quantity, quality and delivery schedules; 

&#8226; delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors&#8217; orders over ours; and 

&#8226; low manufacturing yields resulting from a failure in our product design or a foundry&#8217;s proprietary process technology. 

If our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share. 

Our hardware and software product offerings are complex and may contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. These risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications or as new versions are released. Some errors in our products or services may only be discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services could expose our end customers to unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy malicious software programs that could attack our products or services. Defects or failure of our products to perform to specifications could lead to substantial damage to the products or the product in which our device has been integrated by OEMs, ODMs, AIBs and Tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs as part of a product recall or otherwise, write-off the value of related inventory, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. An error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in failure to achieve market acceptance, loss of design wins, and harm to our relationships with existing and prospective customers and partners and consumers&#8217; perceptions of our brand, which would in turn negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results. We may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including for costs to repair or replace products in the field. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel and harm our business. Further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. 

Risks Related to Our Global Operating Business 

We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations, including adverse economic conditions, which may harm our business. 

We conduct our business and have offices worldwide. Our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the United States and we generated 84% of our revenue for fiscal year 2022 from sales outside of the United States. The global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: 

&#8226; domestic and international economic and political conditions between countries in which we do business; 

&#8226; differing legal standards with respect to protection of IP and employment practices; 

&#8226; domestic and international business and cultural practices that differ; 

&#8226; disruptions to capital markets and/or currency fluctuations; and 

&#8226; natural disasters, acts of war or other military actions, terrorism, public health issues, and other catastrophic events. 

Adverse changes in global, regional or local economic conditions, including recession or slowing growth, changes or uncertainty in fiscal, monetary, or trade policy, higher interest rates, tighter credit, inflation, lower capital expenditures by businesses including on IT infrastructure, increases in unemployment, and lower consumer confidence and spending, periodically occur. More recently, increased inflation may impact supply, employee, facilities and infrastructure costs. To the extent such inflation continues, increases or both, it may reduce our margins and have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 

Economic and industry uncertainty or changes could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on our business and financial results, including: 

&#8226; decrease in demand for our products, services and technologies and those of our customers or licensees; 

&#8226; the inability of our suppliers to deliver on their supply commitments to us; 

&#8226; our customers&#8217; or our licensees&#8217; inability to supply products to customers and/or end users; 

&#8226; the insolvency of key suppliers, distributors, customers or licensees; 

&#8226; limits on our ability to forecast operating results and make business decisions; 

&#8226; difficulties in obtaining capital; 

&#8226; reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations; 

&#8226; lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively; and 

&#8226; increased credit and collectability risks, higher borrowing costs or reduced availability of capital markets, reduced liquidity, adverse impacts on our suppliers, failures of counterparties including financial institutions and insurers, asset impairments, and declines in the value of our financial instruments. 

We have engineering, sales support operations and manufacturing located in Israel. The State of Israel and companies with business in Israel have been and could in future be the subject of an economic boycott. Other countries have and may continue in the future restrict business with the State of Israel and companies with Israeli operations. Such laws and policies may have adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Climate change may have a long-term impact on our business. 

Climate change may have an increasingly adverse impact on our business and those of our customers, partners and vendors. Water and energy availability and reliability in the communities where we conduct business is critical. We have facilities in regions that may be vulnerable to the impacts of extreme weather events. Extreme heat and wind coupled with dry conditions in Northern California may lead to power safety shut offs due to wildfire risk. These measures can have adverse implications for our Santa Clara, California headquarter offices and data centers, including impairing the ability of our employees to work effectively. Climate change, its impact on our supply chain and critical infrastructure worldwide, and its potential to increase political instability in regions where we, our customers, partners and our vendors do business, may disrupt our business and may cause us to experience higher attrition, losses and costs to maintain or resume operations. Although we maintain a program of insurance coverage for a variety of property, casualty, and other risks, the types and amounts of insurance we obtain vary depending on availability and cost. Some of our policies have large deductibles and broad exclusions, and our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. Losses not covered by insurance may be large, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. 

Our operations, products and services, as well as those of our suppliers and customers, may also be subject to climate-related laws, regulations and lawsuits. Regulations such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits could result in greater direct costs, including costs associated with changes to manufacturing processes or the procurement of raw materials used in manufacturing processes, increased levels of capital expenditures to improve facilities and equipment, and higher compliance and energy costs to reduce emissions, as well as greater indirect costs resulting from our customers, suppliers or both incurring additional compliance costs that are passed on to us. These costs and restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our 

operations and product design activities. Stakeholder groups may find us insufficiently responsive to the implications of climate change, and therefore we may face legal action or reputational harm. We may not achieve our stated goal to source 100% of our global electricity use from renewable energy by the end of fiscal year 2025, which could harm our reputation, or we may incur additional, unexpected costs to achieve such a goal. We may also experience contractual disputes due to supply chain delays arising from climate change-related disruptions, which could result in increased litigation and costs. 

We also face risks related to business trends that may be influenced by climate change concerns. We may face decreased demand for computationally powerful but energy intensive products, such as our GPUs, despite their energy efficient design and operation, and/or increased consumer or customer expectations around the energy efficiency of our products, could negatively impact our business. 

We may not be able to realize the potential benefits of business investments or acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. 

We have and may continue to acquire and invest in businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing strategic objectives. 

Acquisitions or investments involve significant challenges and risks and could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products and ultimately could have a negative impact on our financial results. Given that our resources are limited, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may limit our ability to enter into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. If we are unable to timely complete acquisitions, including due to delays and challenges in obtaining regulatory approvals, we may be unable to pursue other transactions, we may not be able to retain critical talent from the target company, technology may evolve and make the acquisition less attractive, and other changes can take place which could reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction and negatively impact our business. For example, on February 8, 2022, NVIDIA and SoftBank announced the termination of the Share Purchase Agreement whereby NVIDIA would have acquired Arm from SoftBank. The parties agreed to terminate because of significant regulatory challenges preventing the completion of the transaction. We intend to record in operating expenses a $1.36 billion charge in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 reflecting the write-off of the prepayment provided at signing in September 2020. In addition, to the extent that our perceived ability to consummate acquisitions has been harmed, future acquisitions may be more difficult, complex or expensive. Further, if we hold investments in publicly traded companies, they could create volatility in our results and may generate losses up to the value of the investment. 

Risks related to acquisitions or strategic investments include, but are not limited to: 

&#8226; difficulty in integrating the technology, products, or operations and integrating and retaining the employees of the acquired business; 

&#8226; diversion of capital and other resources, including management&#8217;s attention; 

&#8226; assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets; 

&#8226; integrating accounting, forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles; 

&#8226; coordinating and integrating operations, particularly in countries in which we do not currently operate; 

&#8226; difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return and uncertainties to realize the benefits of an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all; 

&#8226; difficulty or inability in obtaining governmental, regulatory approval or restrictions or other consents and approvals or financing; 

&#8226; Stock price impact, fines, fees or reputation harm if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for an acquisition or are otherwise unable to close an acquisition; 

&#8226; legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment; 

&#8226; potential issuances of debt to finance our acquisitions, resulting in increased debt, increased interest expense, and compliance with debt covenants or other restrictions; 

&#8226; the potential for our acquisitions to result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities; 

&#8226; the potential variability of the amount and form of any performance-based consideration; 

&#8226; negative changes in general economic conditions in the regions or the industries in which we or our target operate; 

&#8226; potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with the assets or company in which we are investing or are acquiring; and 

&#8226; impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target&#8217;s employees, vendors and customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. 

System security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation. 

Security breaches, computer malware, social-engineering attacks, denial-of-service attacks, software bugs, server malfunctions, software or hardware failures, loss of data or other information technology assets, and other cyber-attacks are increasingly sophisticated, making it more difficult to successfully detect, defend against them or implement adequate preventative measures. 

For example, on February 23, 2022, we became aware of a security incident involving unauthorized access to our network by a group of independent criminal threat actors, not affiliated with any government or political cause. The threat actors obtained NVIDIA network credentials and through deception, obtained two-factor authentication capability and access to our network. The threat actors misappropriated certain NVIDIA proprietary information, including NVIDIA source code, and leaked some of that information online. Upon learning of the security incident, we engaged in remedial and preventative actions, rotated all NVIDIA network credentials to prevent further unauthorized access, hardened our network, analyzed the information that the threat actors exfiltrated, and notified law enforcement and other authorities. 

Cyber-attacks, including ransomware attacks by organized criminal threat actors, nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors, may become more prevalent and severe. Our ability to recover from ransomware attacks may be limited if our backups have been affected by the attack, or if restoring from backups is delayed or not feasible. 

Threat actors, sophisticated nation-states, and nation-state-supported actors now engage and are expected to continue to engage in cyber-attacks. Due to increasing geopolitical conflicts, we and the third parties upon which we rely may be vulnerable to a heightened risk of cyber-attacks. Furthermore, we rely on products and services provided by third party suppliers to operate certain critical business systems, including without limitation, cloud-based infrastructure, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, and other functions, which exposes us to supply-chain attacks or other business disruptions. We cannot guarantee that third parties and infrastructure in our supply chain or our partners&#8217; supply chains have not been compromised or that they do not contain exploitable defects or bugs that could result in a breach of or disruption to our information technology systems, including our products and services, or the third-party information technology systems that support our services. Our ability to monitor these third parties&#8217; information security practices is limited, and these may not have adequate information security measures in place. In addition, if one of our third-party suppliers suffers a security breach, our response may be limited or more difficult because we may not have direct access to their systems, logs and other information related to the security breach. 

To defend against cyber-attacks, we must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and reliability features, which is expected to result in increased expenses. We must also continue to develop our security measures, ensure our suppliers have appropriate security measures in place, and continue to meet the evolving security requirements of our customers. We may not always be able to detect vulnerabilities in our security controls, systems or software, including third-party software we have installed, as such threats and techniques change frequently and may not be detected until after a security incident has occurred. Further, we may experience delays in developing and deploying remedial measures designed to address identified vulnerabilities. 

Breaches of our security measures, along with reported or perceived vulnerabilities or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or third parties could expose us and the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, potentially resulting in litigation and subsequent liability, regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. If we or a third party we rely on experience a security incident or are perceived to have experienced a security incident, we may experience adverse consequences, including government enforcement actions, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, restrictions on processing data, litigation, indemnification obligations, reputational harm, diversion of funds, financial 

loss, loss of data, material disruptions in our systems and operations, supply chain, and ability to produce, sell and distribute our goods and services, and other similar harms. Inability to fulfill orders, delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. 

Business disruptions could harm our operations, lead to a decline in revenue and increase our costs. 

Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, power or water shortages, telecommunications failures, cloud service provider outages, terrorist attacks, or acts of violence, political and/or civil unrest, acts of war or other military actions, epidemics or pandemics and other natural or man-made disasters and catastrophic events. Our corporate headquarters, a large portion of our current data center capacity, and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure services for IT and research and development systems and personnel. Geopolitical and domestic political developments and other events beyond our control, can increase economic volatility globally. Political instability, changes in government or adverse political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the invasion by Russia of Ukraine has had and will likely continue to have a negative impact on our employees or operations both within and outside these regions, and may result in the loss of some or even all of our assets in those regions. Our operations could be harmed and our costs could increase if manufacturing, logistics or other operations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues. For example, our operations could be harmed, and our costs could increase, if the conflict between Russia and Ukraine results in a shortage of key materials that our suppliers, including our foundry partners, require to satisfy our needs. The ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers of being located and consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. In the event a disaster, war or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, and substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. All of these risks and conditions could materially adversely affect our future sales and operating results. 

We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers and our revenue could be adversely affected if we lose or are prevented from selling to any of these customers. 

We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our distribution and partner network. With several of these distributors and partners, we are selling multiple target market platforms through their channels. Our operating results depend on sales within our partner network, as well as the ability of these partners to sell products that incorporate our processors. In the future, these partners may decide to purchase fewer products, not to incorporate our products into their ecosystem, or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way. Because most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, our customers can cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty. Our partners or customers may develop their own solutions; our customers may purchase products from our competitors; and our partners may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products, all of which may alter partners&#8217; or customers&#8217; purchasing patterns. The loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction in purchases by them, our inability to sell to a customer due to U.S. trade restrictions, or any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations. 

If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees, our business may be harmed. 

To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees and recruit and develop diverse talent. Labor is subject to external factors that are beyond our control, including our industry&#8217;s highly competitive market for skilled workers and leaders, cost inflation, the COVID-19 pandemic and workforce participation rates. We also must recruit and develop diverse talent. Changes in immigration and work permit regulations or in their administration or interpretation could impair our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our business may be adversely affected. Competition for personnel results in increased costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation. We also must retain the key personnel hired as a result of our acquisitions, or it could reduce the anticipated benefits of those transactions. We are highly dependent on the services of our longstanding executive team. Failure to ensure effective succession planning, transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving executives and key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution and long-term success. 

Our business is dependent upon the proper functioning of our business processes and information systems and modification or interruption of such systems may disrupt our business, processes and internal controls. 

We rely upon internal processes and information systems to support key business functions, including our assessment of internal controls over financial reporting as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The efficient operation of these processes and systems is critical and they need to be scalable to support our growth, including for acquisitions of other businesses. We expect in the first quarter of fiscal year 2023 to commence implementation of accounting and consolidation functionality related to a new enterprise resource planning, or ERP, system. Any ERP system problems upon implementation, such as quality issues or programming errors, could impact our continued ability to successfully operate our business or to timely and accurately report our financial results. These changes may be costly and disruptive to our operations and could impose substantial demands on management time. Failure to implement new or updated controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. 

Identification of material weaknesses in our internal controls, even if quickly remediated once disclosed, may cause investors to lose confidence in our financial statements and our stock price may decline. Remediation of any material weakness could require us to incur significant expenses and if we fail to remediate any material weakness, our financial statements may be inaccurate, we may be required to restate our financial statements, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected, our access to the capital markets may be restricted, the trading price of our common stock may decline, and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. 

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our business and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

COVID-19 has impacted, and continues to impact, our workforce and operations and those of our customers, partners, vendors and suppliers. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, the increased duration and impact of economic and demand uncertainty, and the limited availability of our supply chain and logistical services, may have a material net negative impact on our business and financial results. While COVID-19 has driven an increase in sales for certain of our products, the demand may not be sustainable if conditions change. COVID-19 containment around the world has put restrictions on, among other areas, manufacturing facilities, commerce, and support operations could limit our capacity to meet customer demand. Stronger demand globally has limited the availability of capacity and components in our supply chain, which could increase our costs, limit our ability to obtain supply at necessary levels or at all, or cause us to hold excess inventory if demand changes. 

COVID-19&#8217;s effect on the global economy and our business is difficult to assess or predict. It has resulted in, and may continue to result in, disruption of global financial markets, which could negatively affect our stock price and liquidity. Volatility in the financial markets could impact overall technology spending, adversely affecting demand for our products, our business and the value of our common stock. 

We have modified our business and workforce practices in response to COVID-19, and we may take further actions as required by government regulations or in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners and suppliers. There is no certainty that our actions will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the disease, and our ability to perform critical functions could be harmed. When we begin to reopen our offices, we expect to incur incremental expenses as we resume onsite services and related in-office costs. 

The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance and our ability to timely execute our business strategies may continue to be difficult to measure and predict. An extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations, and access to sources of liquidity and financial condition, though the full extent and duration of these impacts is uncertain. 

Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. 

Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors described in these risk factors. Therefore, investors should not rely on past comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Additional factors that could affect our results of operations include, but are not limited to: 

&#8226; our ability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services; 

&#8226; our ability to comply with our customers&#8217; contractual obligations; 

&#8226; the inability of some customers to make required payments, our ability to obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers, and customer bad debt write-offs; 

&#8226; unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; and 

&#8226; changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards. 

Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. Any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility. 

Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Stock and Other Matters 

Our operations could be affected by the complex laws, rules and regulations to which our business is subject, and political and other actions may adversely impact our business. 

We are subject to laws and regulations domestically and worldwide, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to, IP ownership and infringement; taxes; import and export requirements and tariffs; anti-corruption; business acquisitions; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; data privacy requirements; competition and antitrust; advertising; employment; product regulations; cybersecurity; environmental, health, and safety requirements; the responsible use of AI; climate change; cryptocurrency; and consumer laws. Compliance with such requirements can be onerous and expensive, could impact our competitive position, and may impact our business operations negatively. For example, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations prohibit us from engaging in certain business practices. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, suppliers, or agents will not violate policies, controls, and procedures that we have designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Should any of these laws, rules and regulations be amended or expanded, or new ones enacted, we could incur materially greater compliance costs and/or restrictions on our ability to manufacture our products and operate our business. For example, we may face increased compliance costs as a result of changes or increases in anti-competition legislation, regulation, administrative rule making, and enforcement activity resulting from growing public concern over concentration of economic power in corporations. 

Government actions, including trade protection and national security policies of U.S. and foreign government bodies, such as tariffs, import or export regulations, including deemed export restrictions, trade and economic sanctions, decrees, quotas or other trade barriers and restrictions could affect our ability to ship products, provide services to our customers and employees, do business without an export license with entities on the U.S. Department of Commerce&#8217;s U.S. Entity List or other U.S. government restricted parties lists (which is expected to change from time to time), and generally fulfill our contractual obligations and have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, in response to the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the United States and certain allies have imposed economic sanctions and export control measures and may impose additional sanctions or export control measures, which have and could in the future result in, among other things, severe or complete restrictions on exports to and other commerce and business dealings involving Russia, certain regions of Ukraine, and/or particular entities and individuals. Such actions have limited or blocked, or could in the future limit or block the passage of our products, services and support into Russia or other regions determined to be supporting Russia, and restrict access by our Russian or Ukrainian employees (both within and outside of Russia and Ukraine) to our systems, negatively impacting productivity. Given these recent sanctions and export restrictions imposed by the United States and foreign government bodies, we recently ceased product sales to Russia. While we have policies and procedures in place to ensure compliance with sanctions and trade restrictions, our employees, contractors, partners, and agents may take actions in violations of such policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. If we were ever found to have violated U.S. export control laws, we may be subject to various penalties available under the laws, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, changes in the public perception of governments in the regions where we operate or plan to operate could negatively impact our business and results of operations. 

Geopolitical tensions and conflicts worldwide, including but not limited to Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, Israel and Korea where the manufacture of our product components and final assembly of our products are concentrated, may result in changing regulatory requirements, trade policies, export controls, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. The increasing focus on the strategic importance of AI technologies may result in additional regulatory restrictions that target products 

and services capable of enabling or facilitating AI, including some or all of our product and service offerings. Such restrictions could limit our ability to serve demand abroad and could negatively impact our business and financial results. Deemed export control limitations could negatively impact the ability of our research and development teams to execute our roadmap or other objectives in a timely manner. 

Recent restrictions imposed by the Chinese government on the duration of gaming activities and access to games may adversely affect our Gaming business. Additionally, revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement could result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans or impact the timing of our shipments. 

Issues relating to the responsible use of AI in our offerings may result in reputational harm and liability. 

Concerns relating to the responsible use of new and evolving technologies, such as AI, in our products and services, may result in reputational harm and liability, and may cause us to incur costs to resolve such issues. We are increasingly building AI capabilities into many of our products and services. AI presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. AI poses emerging ethical issues and if we enable or offer solutions that draw controversy due to their perceived or actual impact on society, or if we are unable to develop effective internal policies and frameworks relating to the responsible development and use of AI models and systems offered through our sales channels, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm or legal liability. Compliance with government regulation in the area of AI ethics may also increase the cost of related research and development. Our failure to address concerns relating to the responsible use of AI by us or others could undermine public confidence in AI and slow adoption of AI in our products and services or cause reputational harm. 

Increased scrutiny from shareholders and others regarding our environmental, social and governance responsibilities could result in additional costs or risks and adversely impact our reputation and willingness of customers and suppliers to do business with us. 

Shareholder advocacy groups, certain institutional investors, investment funds, other market participants, shareholders and customers have focused increasingly on the ESG and sustainability practices of companies, including those associated with climate change and human rights. These parties have placed increased importance on the implications of the social cost of their investments. If our ESG practices do not meet shareholder or other industry stakeholder expectations and standards, which continue to evolve, our brand, reputation and business activities may be negatively impacted. Any sustainability report that we publish or other sustainability disclosures we make may include our policies and practices on a variety of social and ethical matters, including corporate governance, environmental compliance, employee health and safety practices, human capital management, product quality, supply chain management, and talent diversity and inclusion practices. It is possible that stakeholders may not be satisfied with our ESG practices or the speed of their adoption. We could also incur additional costs and require additional resources to monitor, report, and comply with various ESG practices, or choose not to conduct business with potential customers, or discontinue or not expand business with existing customers, due to our policies. Also, our failure, or perceived failure, to meet the standards included in any sustainability disclosure could have a material negative impact on our reputation and business activities. 

Actions to adequately protect our IP rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products. 

From time to time, we are involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other IP rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for claims of infringement. An unfavorable ruling could include significant damages, invalidation of one or more patents, indemnification of third parties, payment of lost profits, or injunctive relief. Claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of others, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. 

We may commence legal proceedings in order to protect our IP rights, which may increase our operating expenses and negatively impact our operating results. We could be subject to countersuits as a result. If infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third party&#8217;s IP, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party&#8217;s IP rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us. If we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain such a license, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. We may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable 

terms, our business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. 

We rely on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our IP. Foreign laws may not protect our products or IP rights to the same extent as United States law. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in research and development, product development, and marketing could be reduced. We also may face risks to our IP if our employees are hired by potential competitors. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections. 

We are subject to stringent and changing data privacy and security obligations. Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings and liability. 

Our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, industry standards, external and internal policies, contracts and other obligations that govern the processing of such data by us and on our behalf. Concerns about our practices or the ultimate use of our products and services with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, including for use in AI, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data in our possession or by one of our partners could result in damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased security costs and costs related to defending legal claims. 

Worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data protection. The European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, and the United Kingdom similarly adopted the U.K. GDPR, governing the strict handling of personal data of persons within the European Economic Area, or EEA, and the United Kingdom, respectively, including its use and protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to access, correct and delete such data about themselves. If we are found not to comply, we could be subject to penalties of up to &#8364;20 million or 4% of worldwide revenue, whichever is greater, and individuals may initiate litigation related to our processing of their personal data. Furthermore, there exists a proposed European regulation related to AI that, if adopted, could impose onerous obligations and could require us to change our business practices. 

Certain jurisdictions have enacted data localization laws and cross-border personal data transfer laws. For example, the GDPR generally restricts the transfer of personal data to countries outside of the EEA. The European Commission released a set of &#8220;Standard Contractual Clauses&#8221; designed for entities to validly transfer personal data out of the EEA to jurisdictions that the European Commission has not found to provide an adequate level of protection, including the United States. Other jurisdictions have enacted or are considering similar cross-border personal data transfer laws and local personal data residency laws, any of which could increase the cost and complexity of doing business. The inability to import personal data to the United States could significantly and negatively impact our business operations, limit our ability to collaborate with parties that are subject to European and other data privacy and security laws, or require us to increase our personal data processing capabilities in Europe and/or elsewhere at significant expense. 

The United States federal, state and local governments have enacted numerous data privacy and security laws, including for data breach notification, personal data privacy, and consumer protection. The California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, or CCPA, gives California residents the right to access, delete and opt-out of certain sharing of their personal information, and to receive detailed information about how it is used and shared. The CCPA allows for statutory fines of up to $7,500 per violation and the law created a private right of action for certain data breaches. California&#8217;s privacy laws will further expand in 2023 under the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, or CPRA, which may restrict the use of certain categories of sensitive personal information; further restrict the use of cross-contextual advertising techniques; restrict the retention of personal information; expand the types of data breaches subject to the private right of action; and establish the California Privacy Protection Agency to impose administrative fines. Virginia passed the Consumer Data Protection Act, and Colorado passed the Colorado Privacy Act, both of which differ from the CPRA and become effective in 2023. If we become subject to new data privacy laws the risk of enforcement action against us could increase as we become subject to additional obligations. 

The interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are quickly changing and may be interpreted and applied in an increasingly stringent fashion and in a manner that is 

inconsistent with our data practices. These obligations may necessitate changes to our information technologies, systems, and practices and to those of any third parties that process personal data on our behalf. Despite our efforts, our personnel or third parties upon whom we rely may fail to comply with such obligations. If we fail, or are perceived to have failed, to address or comply with data privacy and security obligations, we could face significant consequences, including but not limited to, government enforcement actions, litigation, additional reporting requirements and/or oversight, bans on processing personal data and orders to destroy or not use personal data. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, or financial condition. 

We have exposure to tax liabilities and our operating results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates. 

As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income-based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. For example, we are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for our fiscal years 2018 and 2019 and under audit in Germany, Israel and India. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken, and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount of non-income taxes imposed on our business, and harm our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Further, changes in United States federal and state or international tax laws applicable to multinational corporations or other fundamental law changes, including proposed changes to existing tax rules and regulations under the current U.S. administration and Congress and as a result of recommendations from intergovernmental economic organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, may materially impact our tax expense and cash flows, as we experienced in fiscal year 2018 with the passage of the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or TCJA. Starting in fiscal year 2023, the TCJA requires taxpayers to capitalize research and development expenditures and to amortize domestic expenditures over five years and foreign expenditures over fifteen years. If Congress does not modify or repeal this provision, it will materially reduce our cash flows beginning in fiscal year 2023. Furthermore, recent proposals to increase the U.S. corporate income tax rate or impose a minimum tax on financial statement income, increase U.S. taxation of international business operations and impose a global minimum tax, could result in increased marginal corporate tax rates. Numerous countries, as well as organizations such as the OECD, support the global minimum tax initiative and are considering changes to existing tax laws or have proposed or enacted new laws that could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business or cause us to change the way we operate our business, which could materially impact our results of operations. 

Our future effective tax rate may also be affected by changes in our business or statutory rates, changes in jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed, changes in available tax credits, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits, changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and in deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation and the recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies within the income tax provision in the period in which they occur, the impact of accounting for business combinations, shifts in the amount of earnings in the United States compared with other regions in the world and overall levels of income before tax, changes in the domestic or international organization of our business and structure, as well as the expiration of statute of limitations and settlements of audits. Any changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income. 

Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings. 

We currently and will likely continue to face legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and/or investigations involving shareholder, consumer, competition and/or other issues relating to our business. For example, we are currently defending on appeal the dismissal of a securities class action lawsuit from multiple shareholders seeking to assert claims that we and certain of our officers made false and/or misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand in 2017 and 2018. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages or fines, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. An unfavorable outcome or settlement may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. Our business is subject to laws and 

regulations that are complex and change frequently. We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with changes in, or remedy violations of, these laws and regulations. 

Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and cash flows from operations, and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations. 

As of January 30, 2022, we had outstanding a total of $11 billion in notes due by 2060. As each series of senior notes matures, unless earlier redeemed or repurchased, we have to repay or refinance the notes. If we decide to refinance, we may be required to do so on different or less favorable terms or we may be unable to refinance the notes at all, both of which may adversely affect our financial condition. We also have a $575 million commercial paper program. 

Maintenance of our indebtedness and contractual restrictions, and future issuances of indebtedness could cause us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations towards debt service obligations and principal repayments; increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; impair our ability to obtain future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes; and restrict our ability to grant liens on property, enter into certain mergers, dispose of all or substantially all of our assets, or materially change our business. 

We are required to comply with the covenants set forth in our indenture and our ability to comply may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. Changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our securities, restrict our ability to obtain financing in the future and affect the terms of any such financing. 

Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and agreement with Microsoft Corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. 

Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions include the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue preferred stock, change the number of directors, and to make, amend or repeal our bylaws without prior shareholder approval; the inability of our shareholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals; and a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws. In 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft to develop and sell graphics chips and license certain technology to Microsoft and its licensees for use in the Xbox. Under the agreement, if someone makes an offer to purchase at least 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. These provisions could delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA, discourage proxy contests, and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. 

