 Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 

An investment in the Company's common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. The Company seeks to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business, but uncertainties and risks are difficult to predict and many are outside of the Company's control and cannot therefore be eliminated. In addition to the other information in this report and the Company's other filings with the SEC, investors should consider carefully the factors set forth below. Investors should be aware that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and that the following is not meant to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. If known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, the Company's business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected, potentially in a material way. 

Risks Related to Our Business, Industry and Operations 

The Company's businesses operate in highly competitive product markets and competitive pressures could adversely affect the Company's earnings. 

The Company faces substantial competition in all three operating segments and in all geographic markets. The Company's businesses compete with companies of all sizes on the basis of cost-effectiveness, technological innovations, intellectual property rights, product performance, real or perceived product advantages, pricing and availability and rate of reimbursement. The Company also competes with other market participants in securing rights to acquisitions, collaborations and licensing agreements with third parties. Competition for rights to product candidates and technologies may result in significant investment and acquisition costs and onerous agreement terms for the Company. Competitors' development of more effective or less costly products, and/or their ability to secure patent and other intellectual property rights and successfully market products ahead of the Company, could negatively impact sales of the Company's existing products as well as its ability to bring new products to market despite significant prior investment in the related product development. 

For the Company's Pharmaceutical businesses, loss of patent exclusivity for a product often is followed by a substantial reduction in sales as competitors gain regulatory approval for generic and other competing products and enter the market. Similar competition can be triggered by the loss of exclusivity for a biological product. For the Company's Medical Devices businesses, technological innovation, product quality, reputation and customer service are especially important to competitiveness. Development by other companies of new or improved products, processes and technologies could threaten to make the Company's products or technologies less desirable, less economical or obsolete. The Company's Consumer Health businesses face intense competition from other branded products and retailers' private-label brands. If the Company fails to sufficiently differentiate and market its brand name consumer products, this could adversely affect revenues and profitability of those products. 

Interruptions and delays in manufacturing operations could adversely affect the Company's business, sales and reputation. 

The Company's manufacture of products requires the timely delivery of sufficient amounts of complex, high-quality components and materials. The Company's subsidiaries operate 85 manufacturing facilities as well as sourcing from thousands of suppliers around the world. The Company has in the past, and may in the future, face unanticipated interruptions and delays in manufacturing through its internal or external supply chain. Manufacturing disruptions can occur for many reasons including regulatory action, production quality deviations or safety issues, labor disputes, labor shortages, site-specific incidents (such as fires), natural disasters such as hurricanes and other severe weather events, raw material shortages, political unrest, terrorist attacks and epidemics or pandemics. Such delays and difficulties in manufacturing can result in product shortages, declines in sales and reputational impact as well as significant remediation and related costs associated with addressing the shortage. 

The Company relies on third parties to manufacture certain of our products. Any failure by or loss of a third-party manufacturer could result in delays and increased costs, which may adversely affect our business. 

The Company relies on third parties to manufacture certain of our products. We depend on these third-party manufacturers to allocate to us a portion of their manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet our needs, to produce products of acceptable quality and at acceptable manufacturing yields and to deliver those products to us on a timely basis and at acceptable prices. However, we cannot guarantee that these third-party manufacturers will be able to meet our near-term or long-term manufacturing requirements, which could result in lost sales and have an adverse effect on our business. 

Other risks associated with our reliance on third parties to manufacture these products include reliance on the third party for regulatory compliance and quality assurance, misappropriation of the Company's intellectual property, limited ability to manage our inventory, possible breach of the manufacturing agreement by the third party and the possible termination or nonrenewal of the manufacturing agreement by the third party at a time that is costly or inconvenient for us. Moreover, if any of our third-party manufacturers suffers any damage to facilities, loses benefits under material agreements, experiences power outages, encounters financial difficulties, is unable to secure necessary raw materials from its suppliers or suffers any other reduction in efficiency, the Company may experience significant business disruption. In the event of any such disruption, the 

##TABLE_START 8 

##TABLE_END

Company would need to seek and source other qualified third-party manufacturers, likely resulting in further delays and increased costs which could affect our business adversely. 

Counterfeit versions of our products could harm our patients and have a negative impact on our revenues, earnings, reputation and business. 

Our industry continues to be challenged by the vulnerability of distribution channels to illegal counterfeiting and the presence of counterfeit products in a growing number of markets and over the Internet. Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet our rigorous manufacturing and testing standards. To distributors and patients, counterfeit products may be visually indistinguishable from the authentic version. Counterfeit medicines pose a risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured &#8211; often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites &#8211; as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. 

The industry's failure to mitigate the threat of counterfeit medicines could adversely impact our business and reputation by impacting patient confidence in our authentic products, potentially resulting in lost sales, product recalls, and an increased threat of litigation. In addition, diversion of our products from their authorized market into other channels may result in reduced revenues and negatively affect our profitability. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted certain aspects of the Company's business and could cause disruptions or future impact to the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition. 

We are subject to risks associated with global health crises, epidemics and pandemics, including the global outbreak of coronavirus and its variants (COVID-19). The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted, and is expected to continue to adversely impact, certain aspects of the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition, including lower sales and reduced customer demand and usage of certain of our products. The spread of COVID-19 has caused the Company to modify its business practices (including instituting remote work for many of the Company's employees), and the Company may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or as the Company determines are in the best interests of our patients, customers, employees and business partners. The Company continues to monitor the situation and while we have robust business continuity plans in place across our global supply chain network to help mitigate the impact of COVID-19, these efforts may not completely prevent our business from being adversely affected and future impacts remain uncertain. 

While the U.S. and other countries have begun or will begin to reopen their economies, the extent to which COVID-19 will impact the Company's future operations will depend on many factors which cannot be predicted with confidence, including the duration of the outbreak and impact of variants. Any resurgence in COVID-19 could result in the imposition of new mandates and prolonged restrictive measures implemented in order to control the spread of the disease. The continued global spread of COVID-19 could adversely impact the Company's operations, including, among other things, our manufacturing operations, supply chain, including third-party suppliers, sales and marketing and clinical trial operations. Any of these factors could adversely affect the Company's business, financial results, and global economic conditions generally. 

We also face uncertainties related to our COVID-19 vaccine, including uncertainties related to the risk that our continued development programs may not be successful, commercially viable or receive approval from regulatory authorities; risks associated with clinical trial and real-world data, including further analyses of its efficacy, safety and durability; the risk that data are subject to differing interpretations and assessments, including during the peer review/publication process, in the scientific community generally, and by national immunization technical advisory groups (NITAGs) and regulatory authorities; disruptions in the relationships between us, our third-party suppliers and external manufacturers; the risk that other companies may produce superior or competitive products; the risk that demand for any products we may develop may no longer exist; risks related to the availability of raw materials to manufacture any such products; the risk that we may not be able to recoup costs associated with our R&D and manufacturing efforts and risks associated with any changes in the way we approach or provide additional research funding for potential drug development related to COVID-19; the risk that we may not be able to create or scale up manufacturing capacity on a timely basis, that we may continue to experience manufacturing delays once a manufacturing site is activated, or have access to logistics or supply channels commensurate with global demand for any potential approved vaccine or product candidate, which would negatively impact our ability to supply the estimated numbers of doses of our vaccine within the projected time periods indicated, and other challenges and risks associated with the pace of our vaccine development program; and pricing and access challenges for such products, including in the U.S. 

In addition, to the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this "Risk Factors" section and those incorporated by reference herein, i ncluding risks relating to the Company's effective tax rate as a result of changes in consumption as well as changes in laws relating to supply of the Company's products . Given that developments concerning the COVID-19 pandemic have been constantly evolving, additional impacts and risks may arise, including litigation, that are not presently known to the Company. 

##TABLE_START 9 

##TABLE_END

Risks Related to Government Regulation and Legal Proceedings 

Global sales in the Company's Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices segments may be negatively impacted by healthcare reforms and increasing pricing pressures. 

Sales of the Company's Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices products are significantly affected by reimbursements by third-party payers such as government healthcare programs, private insurance plans and managed care organizations. As part of various efforts to contain healthcare costs, these payers are putting downward pressure on prices at which products will be reimbursed. In the U.S., increased purchasing power of entities that negotiate on behalf of Medicare, Medicaid, and private sector beneficiaries, in part due to continued consolidation among healthcare providers, could result in further pricing pressures. In addition, increased political scrutiny could result in additional pricing pressures. Outside the U.S., numerous major markets, including the EU, United Kingdom, Japan and China, have pervasive government involvement in funding healthcare and, in that regard, directly or indirectly impose price controls, limit access to, or reimbursement for, the Company's products, or reduce the value of its intellectual property protection. 

The Company is subject to significant legal proceedings that can result in significant expenses, fines and reputational damage. 

In the ordinary course of business, Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries are subject to numerous claims and lawsuits involving various issues such as product liability, patent disputes and claims that their product sales, marketing and pricing practices violate various antitrust, unfair trade practices and/or consumer protection laws. The Company's more significant legal proceedings are described in Note 19, "Legal Proceedings" under Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report. Litigation, in general, and securities, derivative action, class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. Some of these matters may include thousands of plaintiffs, may involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. For example, the Company is a defendant in numerous lawsuits arising out of the use of body powders containing talc, primarily JOHNSON'S  Baby Powder, and the Company's sale, manufacturing and marketing of opioids. While the Company believes it has substantial defenses in these matters, it is not feasible to predict the ultimate outcome of litigation. The Company could in the future be required to pay significant amounts as a result of settlements or judgments in these matters, potentially in excess of accruals, including matters where the Company could be held jointly and severally liable among other defendants. The resolution of, or increase in accruals for, one or more of these matters in any reporting period could have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations and cash flows for that period. The Company does not purchase third-party product liability insurance; however, the Company utilizes a wholly owned captive insurance company subject to certain limits. 

Product reliability, safety and effectiveness concerns can have significant negative impacts on sales and results of operations, lead to litigation and cause reputational damage. 

Concerns about product safety, whether raised internally or by litigants, regulators or consumer advocates, and whether or not based on scientific evidence, can result in safety alerts, product recalls, governmental investigations, regulatory action on the part of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (or its counterpart in other countries), private claims and lawsuits, payment of fines and settlements, declining sales and reputational damage. These circumstances can also result in damage to brand image, brand equity and consumer trust in the Company's products. Product recalls have in the past, and could in the future, prompt government investigations and inspections, the shutdown of manufacturing facilities, continued product shortages and related sales declines, significant remediation costs, reputational damage, possible civil penalties and criminal prosecution. 

The Company faces significant regulatory scrutiny, which imposes significant compliance costs and exposes the Company to government investigations, legal actions and penalties. 

Like other companies in the healthcare industry, the Company is subject to extensive regulation, investigations and legal action by national, state and local government agencies in the U.S. and other countries in which it operates. Regulatory issues regarding compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) (and comparable quality regulations in foreign countries) by manufacturers of drugs, devices and consumer products can lead to fines and penalties, product recalls, product shortages, interruptions in production, delays in new product approvals and litigation. In addition, the marketing, pricing and sale of the Company's products are subject to regulation, investigations and legal actions including under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Medicaid Rebate Program, federal and state false claims acts, state unfair trade practices acts and consumer protection laws. Scrutiny of healthcare industry business practices by government agencies and state attorneys general in the U.S., and any resulting investigations and prosecutions, carry risk of significant civil and criminal penalties including, but not limited to, debarment from participation in government healthcare programs. Any such debarment could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. The most significant current investigations and litigation brought by government agencies are described in Note 19, "Legal ProceedingsGovernment Proceedings" under Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report. 

##TABLE_START 10 

##TABLE_END

Changes in tax laws or exposures to additional tax liabilities could negatively impact the Company's operating results. 

Changes in tax laws or regulations around the world, including in the U.S. and as led by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, could negatively impact the Company's effective tax rate and results of operations. A change in statutory tax rate or certain international tax provisions in any country would result in the revaluation of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities related to that particular jurisdiction in the period in which the new tax law is enacted. This change would result in an expense or benefit recorded to the Company's Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The Company closely monitors these proposals as they arise in the countries where it operates. Changes to tax laws or regulations may occur at any time, and any related expense or benefit recorded may be material to the fiscal quarter and year in which the law change is enacted. 

See Note 8, "Income Taxes" under Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report for additional information. 

The Company conducts business and files tax returns in numerous countries and is addressing tax audits and disputes with many tax authorities. In connection with various government initiatives, companies are required to disclose more information to tax authorities on operations around the world, which may lead to greater audit scrutiny of profits earned in other countries. The Company regularly assesses the likely outcomes of its tax audits and disputes to determine the appropriateness of its tax reserves. However, any tax authority could take a position on tax treatment that is contrary to the Company's expectations, which could result in tax liabilities in excess of reserves. 

Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property 

The Company faces increased challenges to intellectual property rights central to its business. 

The Company owns or licenses a significant number of patents and other proprietary rights relating to its products and manufacturing processes. These rights are essential to the Company's businesses and materially important to the Company's results of operations. Public policy, both within and outside the U.S., has become increasingly unfavorable toward intellectual property rights. The Company cannot be certain that it will obtain adequate patent protection for new products and technologies in the United States and other important markets or that such protections, once granted, will last as long as originally anticipated. 

Competitors routinely challenge the validity or extent of the Company's owned or licensed patents and proprietary rights through litigation, interferences, oppositions and other proceedings, such as inter partes review (IPR) proceedings before the United States Patent & Trademark Office (USPTO). These proceedings absorb resources and can be protracted as well as unpredictable. In addition, challenges that the Company's products infringe the patents of third parties could result in an injunction and/or the need to pay past damages and future royalties and adversely affect the competitive position and sales of the products in question. 

The Company has faced increasing patent challenges from third parties seeking to manufacture and market generic and biosimilar versions of the Company's key pharmaceutical products prior to expiration of the applicable patents covering those products. In the U.S., manufacturers of generic versions of innovative human pharmaceutical products may challenge the validity, or claim non-infringement, of innovator products through the Abbreviated New Drug Application, or ANDA, process with the U.S. FDA and related ANDA litigation. The Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act (BPCIA), enacted in 2010, which created a new regulatory pathway for the approval by the U.S. FDA of biosimilar alternatives to innovator-developed biological products, also created mechanisms for biosimilar applicants to challenge the patents on the innovator biologics. The IPR process with the USPTO is also being used by competitors to challenge patents asserted in litigation. 

In the event the Company is not successful in defending its patents against such challenges, or upon the "at-risk" launch by the generic or biosimilar firm of its product, the Company can lose a major portion of revenues for the referenced product in a very short period of time. Current legal proceedings involving the Company's patents and other intellectual property rights are described in Note 19, "Legal ProceedingsIntellectual Property" under Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this Report. 

Risks Related to Product Development, Regulatory Approval and Commercialization 

Significant challenges or delays in the Company's innovation and development of new products, technologies and indications could have an adverse impact on the Company's long-term success. 

The Company's continued growth and success depends on its ability to innovate and develop new and differentiated products and services that address the evolving healthcare needs of patients, providers and consumers. Development of successful 

##TABLE_START 11 

##TABLE_END

products and technologies is also necessary to offset revenue losses when the Company's existing products lose market share due to various factors such as competition and loss of patent exclusivity. New products introduced within the past five years accounted for approximately 25% of 2021 sales. The Company cannot be certain when or whether it will be able to develop, license or otherwise acquire companies, products and technologies, whether particular product candidates will be granted regulatory approval, and, if approved, whether the products will be commercially successful. 

The Company pursues product development through internal research and development as well as through collaborations, acquisitions, joint ventures and licensing or other arrangements with third parties. In all of these contexts, developing new products, particularly pharmaceutical and biotechnology products and medical devices, requires significant investment of resources over many years. Only a very few biopharmaceutical research and development programs result in commercially viable products. The process depends on many factors including the ability to: discern patients' and healthcare providers' future needs; develop promising new compounds, strategies and technologies; achieve successful clinical trial results; secure effective intellectual property protection; obtain regulatory approvals on a timely basis; and, if and when they reach the market, successfully differentiate the Company's products from competing products and approaches to treatment. New products or enhancements to existing products may not be accepted quickly or significantly in the marketplace due to product and price competition, changes in customer preferences or healthcare purchasing patterns, resistance by healthcare providers or uncertainty over third-party reimbursement. Even following initial regulatory approval, the success of a product can be adversely impacted by safety and efficacy findings in larger real-world patient populations, as well as market entry of competitive products. 

Risks Related to Financial and Economic Market Conditions 

The Company faces a variety of financial, economic, legal, social and political risks associated with conducting business internationally . 

The Company's extensive operations and business activity throughout the world are accompanied by certain financial, economic, legal, social and political risks, including those listed below. 

Foreign Currency Exchange : In fiscal 2021, approximately 50% of the Company's sales occurred outside of the U.S., with approximately 25% in Europe, 6% in the Western Hemisphere, excluding the U.S., and 19% in the Asia-Pacific and Africa region. Changes in non-U.S. currencies relative to the U.S. dollar impact the Company's revenues and expenses. While the Company uses financial instruments to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on its cash flows, unhedged exposures continue to be subject to currency fluctuations. In addition, the weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar may result in significant favorable or unfavorable translation effects when the operating results of the Company's non-U.S. business activity are translated into U.S. dollars. 

Inflation and Currency Devaluation Risks : The Company faces challenges in maintaining profitability of operations in economies experiencing high inflation rates. The Company has accounted for operations in Argentina and Venezuela as highly inflationary, as the prior three-year cumulative inflation rate surpassed 100%. While the Company strives to maintain profit margins in these areas through cost reduction programs, productivity improvements and periodic price increases, it might experience operating losses as a result of continued inflation. In addition, the impact of currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates or significant currency exchange fluctuations could negatively impact the Company's operating results. 

Illegal Importation of Pharmaceutical Products : The illegal importation of pharmaceutical products from countries where government price controls or other market dynamics result in lower prices may adversely affect the Company's sales and profitability in the U.S. and other countries in which the Company operates. With the exception of limited quantities of prescription drugs for personal use, foreign imports of pharmaceutical products are illegal under current U.S. law. However, the volume of illegal imports continues to rise as the ability of patients and other customers to obtain the lower-priced imports has grown significantly. 

Anti-Bribery and Other Regulations: The Company is subject to various federal and foreign laws that govern its international business practices with respect to payments to government officials. Those laws include the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits U.S. publicly traded companies from promising, offering, or giving anything of value to foreign officials with the corrupt intent of influencing the foreign official for the purpose of helping the Company obtain or retain business or gain any improper advantage. The Company's business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with foreign officials. Also, in many countries outside the U.S., the healthcare providers who prescribe human pharmaceuticals are employed by the government and the purchasers of human pharmaceuticals are government entities; 

##TABLE_START 12 

##TABLE_END

therefore, the Company's interactions with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the FCPA. In addition to the U.S. application and enforcement of the FCPA, various jurisdictions in which the Company operates have laws and regulations, including the U.K. Bribery Act 2010, aimed at preventing and penalizing corrupt and anticompetitive behavior. Enforcement activities under these laws could subject the Company to additional administrative and legal proceedings and actions, which could include claims for civil penalties, criminal sanctions, and administrative remedies, including exclusion from healthcare programs. 

Other Financial, Economic, Legal, Social and Political Risks . Other risks inherent in conducting business globally include: 

 local and regional economic environments and policies in the markets that we serve, including interest rates, monetary policy, inflation, economic growth, recession, commodity prices, and currency controls or other limitations on the ability to expatriate cash; 

 protective economic policies taken by governments, such as trade protection measures and import/export licensing requirements; 

 compliance with local regulations and laws including, in some countries, regulatory requirements restricting the Company's ability to manufacture or sell its products in the relevant market; 

 diminished protection of intellectual property and contractual rights in certain jurisdictions; 

 potential nationalization or expropriation of the Company's foreign assets; 

 political or social upheavals, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; and 

 geopolitical events, including natural disasters, disruptions to markets due to war, armed conflict, terrorism, epidemics or pandemics. 

Failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. 

We currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. Rating agencies routinely evaluate us, and their ratings of our long-term and short-term debt are based on a number of factors. Any downgrade of our credit ratings by a credit rating agency, whether as a result of our actions or factors which are beyond our control, can increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. 

Risks Related to the Planned Separation of our Consumer Health Business 

The planned separation of the Company's Consumer Health business may not be completed on the terms or timeline currently contemplated, if at all, and may not achieve the expected results. 

In November 2021, the Company announced its intention to separate the Company's Consumer Health business, with the intention to create a new, publicly traded company. The planned separation is intended to qualify as a tax-free transaction for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The Company is targeting completion of the planned separation in 18 to 24 months after initial announcement. Completion of the planned separation will be subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including, among others, consultations with works councils and other employee representative bodies, as required, final approval of the Company's Board of Directors, receipt of a favorable opinion and Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") ruling with respect to the tax-free nature of the transaction, and the receipt of other regulatory approvals. There can be no assurance regarding the ultimate timing of the planned separation or that such separation will be completed. Unanticipated developments could delay, prevent or otherwise adversely affect the planned separation, including but not limited to disruptions in general or financial market conditions or potential problems or delays in obtaining various regulatory and tax approvals or clearances. 

The costs to complete the planned separation will be significant. In addition, the Company may be unable to achieve some or all of the strategic and financial benefits that it expects to achieve from the planned separation of the Company's Consumer Health business. 

The Company will incur significant expenses in connection with the planned separation. In addition, the Company may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that are expected to result from the planned separation. The anticipated benefits of the planned separation are based on a number of assumptions, some of which may prove incorrect. 

##TABLE_START 13 

##TABLE_END

Following the planned separation, the price of shares of the Company's common stock may fluctuate significantly. 

The Company cannot predict the effect of the planned separation on the trading price of shares of its common stock, and the market value of shares of its common stock may be less than, equal to or greater than the market value of shares of its common stock prior to the planned separation. In addition, the price of the Company's common stock may be more volatile around the time of the planned separation. 

The planned separation could result in substantial tax liability. 

The Company intends to obtain an opinion from its U.S. tax advisors and a ruling from the IRS as to the tax-free nature of the planned separation under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. The opinion and ruling will be based on, among other things, various factual assumptions and representations that the Company and the New Consumer Health Company will make regarding the past and future conduct of the companies' respective businesses and other matters. If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the opinion and ruling may be jeopardized. If subsequent to the planned separation it is determined that the transaction does not qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the resulting tax liability to the Company and its shareholders could be substantial. The planned separation may also not qualify for tax-free treatment in other countries around the world, and as a result may trigger substantial tax liability to the Company. 

Other Risks 

Our business depends on our ability to recruit and retain talented, highly skilled employees and a diverse workforce. 

Our continued growth requires us to recruit and retain talented employees representing diverse backgrounds, experiences, and skill sets. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive and our ability to compete depends on our ability to hire, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel in all areas of our organization. Maintaining our brand and reputation, as well as a diverse, equitable and inclusive work environment enables us to attract top talent. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain highly skilled workers and key leaders, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. In addition, effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. Any unsuccessful implementation of our succession plans or failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. 

Climate change or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change may negatively affect our business and results of operations. 

Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere could present risks to our operations, including an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. Natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, such as a hurricane, tornado, earthquake, wildfire or flooding, may pose physical risks to our facilities and disrupt the operation of our supply chain. The impacts of the changing climate on water resources may result in water scarcity, limiting our ability to access sufficient high-quality water in certain locations, which may increase operational costs. 

Concern over climate change may also result in new or additional legal or regulatory requirements designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and/or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment. If such laws or regulations are more stringent than current legal or regulatory obligations, we may experience disruption in, or an increase in the costs associated with sourcing, manufacturing and distribution of our products, which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Further, the impacts of climate change have an influence on customer preferences, and failure to provide climate-friendly products could potentially result in loss of market share. 

An information security incident, including a cybersecurity breach, could have a negative impact to the Company's business or reputation. 

To meet business objectives, the Company relies on both internal information technology (IT) systems and networks, and those of third parties and their vendors, to process and store sensitive data, including confidential research, business plans, financial information, intellectual property, and personal data that may be subject to legal protection, and ensure the continuity of the Company's supply chain. The extensive information security and cybersecurity threats, which affect companies globally, pose a risk to the security and availability of these systems and networks, and the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the Company's sensitive data. The Company continually assesses these threats and makes investments to increase internal protection, detection, and response capabilities, as well as ensure the Company's third-party providers have required capabilities and controls, to address this risk . To date, the Company has not experienced any material impact to the business or operations resulting from information or cybersecurity attacks; however, because of the frequently changing attack techniques, along with the increased volume and sophistication of the attacks, there is the potential for the Company to be adversely 

##TABLE_START 14 

##TABLE_END

impacted. This impact could result in reputational, competitive, operational or other business harm as well as financial costs and regulatory action. The Company maintains cybersecurity insurance in the event of an information security or cyber incident; however, the coverage may not be sufficient to cover all financial, legal, business or reputational losses. 

A breach of privacy laws or unauthorized access, loss or misuse of personal data could have a negative impact to the Company's business or reputation. 

The Company is subject to privacy and data protection laws across the globe that impose broad compliance obligations on the collection, use, storage, access, transfer and protection of personal data. Breach of such requirements could result in substantial fines, penalties, private right of actions, claims and damage to our reputation and business. New privacy laws are expected in other territories, together with greater privacy enforcement by governmental authorities globally, particularly on data localization requirements and international data flows. The Company has established privacy compliance programs and controls that our businesses worldwide are required to comply with, but with many technology and data-driven initiatives being prioritized across the Company and involving multiple vendors and third parties, there are potential risks of controls imposed on cross border data flows, unauthorized access, and loss of personal data through internal and external threats that could impact our business operations and research activities. 

