 Item 1A. Risk Factors. 

Our business, results of operations, and financial condition are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. In connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Should any of these risks materialize, our business, results of operations, financial condition and future 

Table of Contents 

prospects could be negatively impacted, which in turn could affect the trading value of our securities. You should read these Risk Factors in conjunction with &#8220; Management&#8217;s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operatio ns &#8221; in Item 7 and our consolidated financial statements and related notes in Item 8. 

Strategic Risks 

Strong competition could adversely affect prices and demand for our products and services and could decrease our market share. 

Our industry is highly competitive, highly fragmented, and evolving. As a result, we face competition for our products and services from a variety of retailers, suppliers, distributors and manufacturers that sell products directly to their respective customer bases, and service providers, ranging from traditional brick-and-mortar, to multichannel, to exclusively online. These competitors include a number of other home improvement retailers; electrical, plumbing and building materials supply houses; and lumber yards. With respect to some products and services, we also compete with specialty design stores, showrooms, discount stores, local, regional and national hardware stores, paint stores, mail order firms, warehouse clubs, independent building supply stores, MRO distributors, home d&#233;cor retailers, and other retailers, as well as with providers of home improvement services and tool and equipment rental. The internet facilitates competitive entry, price transparency, and comparison shopping, increasing the level of competition we face. 

We compete primarily based on customer experience, price, quality, product availability and assortment, and delivery options, both in-store and online. We also compete based on store location and appearance, presentation of merchandise, and ease of shopping experience. Furthermore, customers are increasingly shopping online and seeking faster and/or guaranteed delivery times, low-price or free shipping, and/or convenient pickup options, including curbside pickup. Our ability to be competitive on delivery and pickup times, options and costs depends on many factors, including leveraging the momentum of our strategic investments in our supply chain and our interconnected retail capabilities to further enhance the customer shopping experience, and our failure to successfully manage these factors and offer competitive delivery and pickup options could negatively impact the demand for our products and our profit margins. 

We use our marketing, advertising and promotional programs to drive customer traffic and compete more effectively, and we must regularly assess and adjust our efforts to address changes in the competitive landscape. Intense competitive pressures from one or more of our competitors, such as through aggressive promotional pricing or liquidation events, or our inability to adapt effectively and quickly to a changing competitive landscape, could adversely affect our prices, our margins, or demand for our products and services. If we are unable to timely and appropriately respond to these competitive pressures, including through the delivery of a superior interconnected customer experience or through maintenance of effective sales and marketing, advertising or promotional programs leveraging both our digital and physical platforms, our market share and our financial performance could be adversely affected. 

We may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer needs, expectations or trends, which could adversely affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. 

The success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond promptly to evolving trends in demographics; shifts in consumer preferences, expectations and needs; and unexpected weather conditions, public health issues (including pandemics and quarantines and related shut-downs, re-openings, or other actions by government regulators or others), or natural disasters, while also managing appropriate inventory levels in our stores and distribution or fulfillment centers and maintaining an excellent customer experience. It is difficult to successfully predict the products and services our customers will demand. As our customers expect a more personalized experience, our ability to collect, use and protect relevant customer data is important to our ability to effectively meet their expectations. Our ability to collect and use that data, however, is subject to a number of external factors, including the impact of legislation or regulations governing data privacy and security. In addition, each of our primary customer groups has different needs and expectations, many of which evolve as the demographics in a particular customer group change. Customer preferences and expectations related to sustainability of products and operations are also increasing. If we do not successfully differentiate the shopping experience to meet the individual needs and expectations of or within a customer group, we may lose market share with respect to those customers. 

Customer expectations about the methods by which they purchase and receive products or services are also becoming more demanding. Customers are routinely and increasingly using technology and a variety of electronic devices and digital platforms to rapidly compare products and prices, read product reviews, determine real-time 

Table of Contents 

product availability, and purchase products. Once products are purchased, customers are seeking alternate options for delivery of those products, and they often expect quick, timely, and low-price or free delivery and/or convenient pickup options. We must continually anticipate and adapt to these changes in the purchasing process by improving the online customer experience as well as our delivery options. The coordinated operation of our network of physical stores, distribution facilities, and online platforms is fundamental to the success of our interconnected strategy. We have our BOSS, BOPIS, BODFS and direct fulfillment delivery options, but we cannot guarantee that these or future programs will be maintained and implemented successfully or that we will be able to meet customer expectations on delivery or pickup times, options and costs. 

In addition, a greater concentration of online sales with direct fulfillment or curbside pickup could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-selling of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our overall sales and adversely affect our financial performance. 

Failure to provide a relevant or effective online customer experience in a timely manner that keeps pace with technological developments and dynamic customer expectations; to maintain appropriate inventory; to provide quick and low-price or free delivery alternatives and convenient pickup options; to differentiate the customer experience for our primary customer groups; to effectively implement an increasingly localized merchandising assortment; or to otherwise timely identify or respond to changing consumer preferences, expectations and home improvement needs could adversely affect our relationship with customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. 

A positive brand and reputation are critical to our business success, and, if our brand and reputation are damaged, it could negatively impact our relationships with our customers, associates, suppliers, vendors, and shareholders, and, consequently, our business and results of operations or the price of our stock. 

Our brand and reputation are critical to attracting customers, associates, suppliers and vendors to do business with us. We must continue to manage and protect our brand and reputation. Negative incidents can erode trust and confidence quickly, and adverse publicity about us could damage our brand and reputation, undermine our customers&#8217; confidence, reduce demand for our products and services, affect our ability to recruit, engage, motivate and retain associates, attract regulatory scrutiny, and impact our relationships with current and potential suppliers and vendors. Further, our actual or perceived position or lack of position on social, environmental, political, public policy, economic, geopolitical, or other sensitive issues, and any perceived lack of transparency about those matters, could harm our reputation with certain groups. Customers are also increasingly using social media to provide feedback and information about our Company, including our products and services, in a manner that can be quickly and broadly disseminated. Negative sentiment about the Company shared over social media could impact our brand and reputation, whether or not it is based in fact. 

The execution of initiatives to expand our supply chain and enhance the interconnected shopping experience could disrupt our operations in the near term, and these initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or might fail. 

We continue to invest in our interconnected retail strategy, including by making significant investments to expand our supply chain. These investments are designed to streamline our operations to allow our associates to continue to provide high-quality service to our customers; simplify customer interactions; provide our customers with a more interconnected shopping experience; and create the fastest, most efficient delivery network for home improvement products. Failure to choose the right investments and implement them in the right manner and at the right pace could disrupt our operations. Executing our interconnected retail strategy requires continual investment in our operations and information technology systems, as well as the development and execution of new processes, systems and support. Building out our supply chain also involves significant real estate projects as we expand our distribution network, requiring us to identify and secure available locations with appropriate characteristics needed to support the different types of facilities. If we are unable to effectively manage the volume, timing, nature, location, and cost of these investments, projects and changes, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. The cost and potential problems, defects of design, and interruptions associated with the implementation of these initiatives, including those associated with managing third-party service providers, employing new web-based tools and services, implementing new technologies, implementing and restructuring support systems and processes, securing appropriate facility locations, and addressing impacts on inventory levels, could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the near term, lead to product availability issues, and impact our profitability. 

In addition, our stores are a key element of our interconnected retail strategy, serving as the hub of our customers&#8217; interconnected shopping experience. We have an aging store base that requires maintenance, investment, and 

Table of Contents 

space reallocation initiatives to deliver the shopping experience that our customers desire. Our investments in our stores may not deliver the relevant shopping experience our customers expect or fully support an interconnected shopping experience. We must also maintain a safe store environment for our customers and associates, as well as protect against loss or theft of our inventory (also called &#8220;shrink&#8221;). Higher rates of shrink, which we continue to experience, can require operational changes that may increase costs and impact the customer experience. 

Our investments to enhance our interconnected shopping experience and expand our supply chain might not provide the anticipated benefits, might take longer than expected to complete or realize anticipated benefits, or might fail altogether, each of which could adversely impact our competitive position and our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 

If we are unable to effectively manage and expand our alliances and relationships with selected suppliers of both brand name and proprietary products, we may be unable to effectively execute our strategy to differentiate ourselves from our competitors. 

As part of our focus on product differentiation, we have formed strategic alliances and exclusive relationships with selected suppliers to market products under a variety of well-recognized brand names. We have also developed relationships with selected suppliers to allow us to market proprietary products that are comparable to national brands. Our proprietary products differentiate us from other retailers, generally carry higher margins than national brand products, and represent a growing portion of our business. If we are unable to manage and expand these alliances and relationships, maintain favorable terms with current suppliers, or identify alternative sources for comparable brand name and proprietary products, we may not be able to effectively execute product differentiation, which may impact our sales and gross margin results. 

Our strategic transactions involve risks, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we may not realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions. 

We regularly consider and enter into strategic transactions, including mergers, acquisitions, investments, alliances, and other growth and market expansion strategies, such as our acquisition of HD Supply in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. We generally expect that these transactions will result in sales increases, cost savings, synergies, enhanced capabilities or various other benefits. Assessing the viability and realizing the benefits of these transactions is subject to significant uncertainty. For each of our acquisitions, we need to determine the appropriate level of integration of the target company&#8217;s products, services, associates, and information technology, financial, human resources, compliance, and other systems and processes, and then successfully manage that integration into our corporate structure. Integration can be a complex and time-consuming process, and if the integration is not fully successful or is delayed for a material period of time, we may not achieve the anticipated synergies or benefits of the acquisition. In addition, the integration of businesses may create complexity in our financial systems, internal controls, technology and cybersecurity systems, and operations and make them more difficult to manage. Furthermore, even if the target companies are successfully integrated, the acquisitions may fail to further our business strategy as anticipated, expose us to increased competition or challenges with respect to our products or services, and expose us to additional risks and liabilities. Strategic transactions may also be subject to significant regulatory uncertainty. The changing enforcement landscape may result in additional costs or delays that affect the anticipated outcome of a transaction. Any failure in the execution of a strategic transaction, our approach to the integration of an acquired asset or business, or achieving expected synergies or other benefits could result in slower growth, higher than expected costs, the recording of an impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, and other actions which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

Operational Risks 

Our success depends upon our ability to attract, develop and retain highly qualified associates to provide excellent customer service and to support our strategic initiatives while also controlling our labor costs. 

Our customers expect a high level of customer service and product knowledge from our associates. To meet the needs and expectations of our customers, we must attract, develop and retain a large number of highly qualified associates. Our ability to meet our labor needs while controlling labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including increased market pressures with respect to prevailing wage rates, unemployment levels, and health and other insurance costs; the impact of legislation or regulations governing labor relations, immigration, minimum wage, and healthcare benefits; changing demographics; the continuing impacts of the pandemic; and our reputation within the labor market. We also compete with other retail businesses for many of our associates in hourly positions, and we invest significant resources in training and motivating them to maintain a high level of job satisfaction. These positions have historically had high turnover rates, which can lead to increased training and retention costs, particularly in a competitive labor market. As a result of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, we have faced and may 

Table of Contents 

continue to face additional challenges in recruiting and retention of associates due to health and safety concerns, vaccine or testing mandates and other governmental requirements; disruption in the availability of school or childcare; and other challenges related to a remote or hybrid working environment for associates who work in our store support centers. These factors, together with growing competition among potential employers, may result in increased salaries, benefits, or other employee-related costs, or may impair our ability to recruit and retain associates, which could have an adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 

In addition, in order to execute our interconnected retail strategy, including our supply chain investments, we must attract and retain a large number of skilled professionals, including technology professionals, to implement our ongoing technology and other investments. The market for these professionals is increasingly competitive. An inability to provide wages and/or benefits, including remote or hybrid work flexibility, that are competitive within the markets in which we operate could adversely affect our ability to retain and attract associates. Further, changes in market compensation rates may adversely affect our labor costs. 

Additionally, our ability to successfully execute organizational changes, including management transitions within the Company's senior leadership, and to effectively motivate and retain associates is critical to our business success. If we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified associates, or manage leadership transition successfully, our ability to effectively manage our strategy may be negatively impacted, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease, and our financial performance may be adversely affected. 

A failure of a key information technology system or process could adversely affect our business. 

We rely extensively on information technology systems and related personnel to collect, analyze, process, store, manage, transmit, and protect transactions and data. Some of these systems are managed or provided by third-party service providers, including certain cloud platform providers. In managing our business, we also rely heavily on the integrity of, security of, and consistent access to, this operational and financial data for information such as sales, customer data, associate data, demand forecasting, merchandise ordering, inventory replenishment, supply chain management, payment processing, order fulfillment, customer service, and post-purchase matters. For these information technology systems, applications, and processes to operate effectively, we or our service providers must maintain and update them. Delays in the maintenance, updates, upgrading, or patching of these systems, applications or processes could impair, and on occasion have impaired, their effectiveness or expose us to security risks. Our systems and the third-party systems with which we interact are subject to and on occasion have experienced damage or interruption from a number of causes, including power and other critical infrastructure outages; computer and telecommunications failures; computer viruses; security breaches; internal or external data theft or misuse; cyber-attacks, including the use of malicious codes, worms, phishing, spyware, denial of service attacks, and ransomware; responsive containment measures by us that may involve voluntarily taking systems off line; natural disasters and catastrophic events such as fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, or other extreme weather events; public health concerns, such as pandemics and quarantines; military conflicts, acts of war, terrorism or civil unrest; other systems outages; inadequate or ineffective redundancy; and design or usage errors or malfeasance by our associates, contractors or third-party service providers. Although we and our third-party service providers seek to maintain our respective systems effectively and to successfully address the risk of compromise of the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems, such efforts are not always successful. As a result, we or our service providers could experience errors, interruptions, delays or cessations of service in key portions of our information technology infrastructure, which could significantly disrupt our operations or impair data security; impact our ability to operate or access communications, financial or banking systems; be costly, time consuming and resource-intensive to remedy; and adversely impact our reputation and relationship with customers, suppliers, shareholders or regulators. 

In addition, we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in our information technology systems, infrastructure and personnel, in certain cases with the assistance of strategic partners and other third-party service providers. These investments involve replacing existing systems, some of which are older, legacy systems that are less flexible and efficient, with successor systems; outsourcing certain technology and business processes to third-party service providers; making changes to existing systems, including the migration of applications to the cloud; maintaining or enhancing legacy systems that are not currently being replaced; or designing or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. These efforts can result in significant potential risks, including failure of the systems to operate as designed, potential loss or corruption of data, changes in security processes and internal controls, cost overruns, implementation delays or errors, disruption of operations, and the potential inability to meet business and reporting requirements. Any system implementation and transition 

Table of Contents 

difficulty may result in operational challenges, security failures, reputational harm, and increased costs that could adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. 

Disruptions in our customer-facing technology systems could impair our interconnected retail strategy and give rise to negative customer experiences. 

Through our information technology systems, we are able to provide an improved overall shopping and interconnected experience that empowers our customers to shop and interact with us from a variety of electronic devices and digital platforms. We use our digital platforms as sales channels for our products and services, as methods of providing inspiration, and as sources of product, project, and other relevant information to our customers to help drive sales. We also have multiple online communities, digital platforms, and knowledge centers that allow us to inform, assist and interact with our customers. The retail industry is continually evolving and expanding, with a significant increase in sales initiated online and via mobile applications. We must effectively respond to new developments and changing customer preferences with respect to a digital and interconnected experience. We continually seek to enhance all of our online and digital properties to provide an attractive, user-friendly interface for our customers. Disruptions, delays, failures or other performance issues with these customer-facing technology systems, or a failure of these systems to meet our or our customers&#8217; expectations, could impair the benefits that they provide to our business and negatively affect our relationship with our customers and, as a result, our financial performance and results of operations. 

Disruptions in our supply chain and other factors affecting the distribution of our merchandise could adversely impact our business. 

A disruption within our logistics or supply chain network, such as the industry-wide supply chain challenges resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, could adversely affect our ability to receive and deliver inventory in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales, increased supply chain costs, or damage to our reputation. Such disruptions may result from damage or destruction to our distribution or fulfillment centers or those of our supply chain service providers; weather-related events; cybersecurity incidents or attacks; natural disasters; international trade disputes, trade policy changes or restrictions, or import- or export-related governmental sanctions or restrictions; quotas, tariffs or other import-related taxes; strikes, lock-outs, work stoppages or slowdowns; shortages of supply chain labor, including truck drivers; shipping capacity constraints, including shortages of related equipment; raw material or other shortages; third-party contract disputes; supply or shipping interruptions or costs; costs or unavailability of fuel; military conflicts or acts of war, as well as any related sanctions or other government or private responses; acts of terrorism; public health issues, including pandemics or quarantines (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) and related shut-downs, re-openings, or other actions by government regulators or others; civil unrest; or other factors beyond our control. In recent years, ports in the U.S. and elsewhere have been impacted by capacity constraints, port congestion and delays, periodic labor disputes, security issues, weather-related events, and natural disasters, which have been further exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic. Disruptions to our supply chain due to any of the factors listed above could negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition. 

If our efforts to maintain the privacy and security of customer, associate, supplier and Company information are not successful, we could incur substantial costs and reputational damage and could become subject to litigation and enforcement actions. 

Our business, like that of most retailers, involves the collection, processing, storage, management, transmission and deletion of customers&#8217; personal information, preferences, and payment card information, as well as other confidential and sensitive information, such as personal information about our associates and our suppliers and confidential Company information. We also work with third-party service providers that provide technology, systems and services that we use in connection with the handling of this information. Our information systems, and those of our third-party service providers, are vulnerable to an increasing threat of continually evolving data protection and cybersecurity risks. Unauthorized parties have in the past gained access, and will continue to attempt to gain access, to these systems and data through fraud or other means of deceiving our associates or third-party service providers. Hardware, software or applications we develop or obtain from third parties may contain exploitable vulnerabilities, bugs, or defects in design, maintenance or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. We have experienced and continue to face the ongoing risk of exploitation of our software providers and our software development and implementation process, including from coding and process vulnerabilities and the installation of so-called back doors that provide unauthorized access to systems and data. The increased use of a remote work infrastructure has also increased the possible attack surfaces. In addition, the risk of cyber-attacks has increased in connection with Russia&#8217;s invasion of Ukraine and the resulting geopolitical conflict. In light of those and other geopolitical events, nation-state actors or their supporters may launch retaliatory 

Table of Contents 

cyber-attacks, and may attempt to cause supply chain and other third-party service provider disruptions, or take other geopolitically motivated retaliatory actions that may disrupt our business operations, result in data compromise, or both. Nation-state actors have in the past carried out, and may in the future carry out, cyber-attacks to achieve their aims and goals, which may include espionage, information operations, monetary gain, ransomware, disruption, and destruction. To achieve their objectives, nation-state actors and other cyber criminals have used and may continue to use numerous attack vectors and methods, including use of stolen passwords, social engineering, phishing, identity spoofing, ransomware or other disruptive and destructive malware, supply chain compromises, and man-in-the-middle and denial of service attacks. The methods used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems are constantly changing and evolving, increasing in frequency and sophistication, and may be difficult to anticipate or detect for long periods of time. 

We have implemented and regularly review and update systems, processes, and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of data and to prevent data loss and preserve data integrity. However, the ever-evolving threats mean we and our third-party service providers and business partners must continually evaluate and adapt our respective systems and processes and overall security environment, as well as those of companies we acquire. There is no guarantee that these measures will be adequate to safeguard against all threats, including vulnerabilities, data security breaches, system compromises or misuses of data. As we saw in connection with the data breach we experienced in 2014, any significant compromise or breach of our data security, whether external or internal, or misuse of customer, associate, supplier or Company data, could result in significant costs, including costs to investigate and remediate, as well as lost sales, fines, lawsuits, regulatory investigations, and damage to our reputation. Furthermore, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of anomalous activity or compromise, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures, and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach, vulnerability or compromise of information for a significant period of time after the security incident occurs. 

In addition, data governance failures can adversely affect our reputation and business. Our business depends on our customers&#8217; and associates&#8217; willingness to entrust us with their personal information. Events that adversely affect that trust, including inadequate disclosure to our customers or our associates of our uses of their information or failing to keep our information technology systems and our customers&#8217; and associates&#8217; sensitive information secure from significant attack, theft, damage, loss or unauthorized disclosure or access, whether as a result of our action or inaction (including human error or malfeasance) or that of our service providers or other third parties, could adversely affect our brand and harm our reputation. Further, the regulatory environment related to data privacy and cybersecurity is constantly changing, with new and increasingly rigorous requirements applicable to our business. The implementation of these requirements has also become more complex. Maintaining our compliance with those requirements, including recently enacted state consumer privacy laws, may require significant effort and cost, require changes to our business practices, and limit our ability to obtain data used to provide a personalized customer experience. In addition, failure to comply with applicable requirements could subject us to fines, sanctions, governmental investigations, lawsuits or reputational damage. While we maintain cyber insurance, our coverage may not be adequate for liabilities or costs actually incurred, and we cannot be certain that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage of a future claim. 

We are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability, and potentially disrupt our business. 

We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit and debit cards, our private label credit cards, cash, checks, PayPal, an installment loan program, trade credit, and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time. Acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. These requirements may change over time or be reinterpreted, making compliance more difficult, costly, or uncertain. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs. We rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. If these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could potentially disrupt our business. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by threat actors, who are becoming increasingly more sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in our payments and payment processing systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data, we may be liable for costs 

Table of Contents 

incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs. As a result, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 

Our business is subject to seasonal influences, and uncharacteristic or significant weather conditions, climate change, natural disasters, as well as other catastrophic events, could impact our operations. 

Natural disasters, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, fires, floods, droughts, tornadoes, and earthquakes; unseasonable, or unexpected or extreme weather conditions, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise; acts of terrorism or violence, including active shooter situations; public health concerns, such as pandemics and quarantines and related shut-downs, re-openings, or other actions by government regulators or others; civil unrest; military conflicts or acts of war, as well as any related sanctions or other government or private responses; or similar disruptions and catastrophic events can affect consumer spending and confidence and consumers&#8217; disposable income, particularly with respect to home improvement or construction projects, and could have an adverse effect on our financial performance. These types of events can also adversely affect our work force and prevent associates and customers from reaching our stores and other facilities. They can also, temporarily or on a long-term basis, disrupt or disable operations of stores, support centers, and portions of our supply chain and distribution network, including causing reductions in the availability of inventory and disruption of utility services. In addition, these events may affect our information systems and digital platforms, resulting in disruption to various aspects of our operations, including our ability to transact with customers and fulfill orders; to communicate with our stores, facilities, store support centers or senior management; or to access financial or banking systems. Unseasonable, unexpected or extreme weather conditions such as excessive precipitation, warm temperatures during the winter season, or prolonged or extreme periods of warm or cold temperatures, could render a portion of our inventory incompatible with customer needs. 

Furthermore, the long-term impacts of climate change, whether involving physical risks (such as extreme weather conditions or rising sea levels) or transition risks (such as regulatory or technology changes) are expected to be widespread and unpredictable. These changes over time could affect, for example, the availability and cost of certain consumer products, commodities, and energy (including utilities), which in turn may impact our ability to procure certain goods or services required for the operation of our business at the quantities and levels we require. 

As a consequence of these or other catastrophic or uncharacteristic events, we may experience interruption to our operations, increased costs, or losses of property, equipment or inventory, which would adversely affect our revenue and profitability. 

If we fail to identify and develop relationships with a sufficient number of qualified suppliers, or if our suppliers experience financial difficulties or other challenges, our ability to timely and efficiently access products that meet our high standards for quality could be adversely affected. 

We buy our products from suppliers located throughout the world, who in turn procure materials from around the world. Our ability to continue to identify and develop relationships with qualified suppliers who can satisfy our high standards for quality and responsible sourcing, as well as our need to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge. Our ability to access products from our suppliers can be adversely affected by economic or political instability; civil unrest; military conflicts or acts of war, as well as any related sanctions or other government or private responses; acts of terrorism or violence; public health issues (including pandemics and quarantines and related shut-downs, re-openings, or other actions by the government); the financial instability of suppliers; suppliers&#8217; noncompliance with applicable laws; trade restrictions; tariffs; currency exchange rates; any disruptions in our suppliers&#8217; logistics or supply chain networks or information technology systems; raw material or other shortages; and other factors beyond our or our suppliers&#8217; control. If we are unable to access products to meet our customers&#8217; demands and expectations in a timely and efficient manner, our sales and gross margin results may be adversely impacted. 

Failure to achieve and maintain a high level of product and service quality and safety and ensure compliance with responsible sourcing laws and standards could damage our reputation with customers, expose us to litigation or enforcement actions, and negatively impact our sales and results of operations. 

Product and service quality issues could negatively impact customer confidence in our brands and our Company. If our product and service offerings do not meet applicable product standards or our customers&#8217; expectations regarding safety or quality , we could experience lost sales and increased costs and be exposed to legal, financial and reputational risks, as well as governmental enforcement actions. Actual, potential or perceived product safety 

Table of Contents 

concerns, including health-related concerns, could expose us to litigation or government enforcement actions, and could result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. We seek but may not be successful in obtaining contractual indemnification and insurance coverage from our suppliers and service providers. If we do not have adequate contractual indemnification or insurance available, such claims could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even with adequate insurance and indemnification, our reputation as a provider of high-quality products and services, including both national brand names and our proprietary products, could suffer, damaging our reputation and impacting customer loyalty. In addition, we and our customers have expectations around responsible sourcing, which is an increasing focus of government regulators as well. All of our suppliers must comply with our responsible sourcing standards, which cover a variety of expectations across multiple areas of social compliance, including supply chain transparency, health and safety, environment, compensation, hours of work, and prohibitions on child and forced labor. We have a responsible sourcing audit process, but we are also dependent on our suppliers to ensure that the products and services we provide comply with our standards and applicable law. Actual, potential or perceived supplier non-compliance could expose us to litigation or governmental enforcement actions, and could result in costly product recalls and other liabilities. 

Our proprietary products subject us to certain increased risks, including regulatory, product liability, intellectual property, supplier relations, and reputational risks. 

In addition to other product-related risks discussed in this section, as we expand our proprietary product offerings, we may become subject to increased risks due to our greater role in the design, manufacture, marketing and sale of those products. The risks include greater responsibility to administer and comply with applicable regulatory requirements, increased potential product liability and product recall exposure, and increased potential reputational risks related to the responsible sourcing of those products. To effectively execute on our product differentiation strategy, we must also be able to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties. In addition, an increase in sales of our proprietary products may adversely affect sales of our suppliers&#8217; products, which in turn could adversely affect our relationships with certain of our suppliers. Any failure to appropriately address some or all of these risks could damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 

If we are unable to effectively manage our installation services business, we could suffer lost sales and be subject to fines, lawsuits and reputational damage, or the loss of our general contractor licenses. 

We act as a general contractor to provide installation services to our DIFM customers through professional third-party licensed and insured installers. As such, we are subject to regulatory requirements and risks applicable to general contractors, which include management of licensing, permitting, and handling of environmental risks, as well as quality of work performed by our third-party installers. We have established processes and procedures to manage these requirements and manage customer satisfaction with the services provided by our third-party installers. However, as we experienced in part with our recent EPA investigation and resulting consent decree in April 2021, if we fail to manage these processes effectively, collect the appropriate documentation, perform regular job site inspections, or provide proper oversight of these services, we could suffer lost sales, fines, lawsuits, or governmental enforcement actions for violations of regulatory requirements, as well as claims for property damage or personal injury. In addition, we may suffer damage to our reputation or the loss of our general contractor licenses, which could adversely affect our business. 

Legal, Financial, Regulatory, Global and Other External Risks 

Uncertainty regarding the housing market, economic conditions, political and social climate, public health issues, and other factors beyond our control could adversely affect demand for our products and services, our costs of doing business, and our financial performance. 

Our financial performance depends significantly on the stability of the housing and home improvement markets, as well as general economic conditions, including changes in gross domestic product. Adverse conditions in or uncertainty about these markets, the economy or the political or social climate could adversely impact our customers&#8217; confidence or financial condition, causing them to decide against purchasing home improvement products and services, causing them to delay purchasing decisions, or impacting their ability to pay for products and services. Other factors beyond our control &#8211; including unemployment and foreclosure rates; inventory loss due to theft; interest rate fluctuations; inflation or deflation; fuel and other energy costs; raw material or other shortages; labor and healthcare costs; the availability of financing; the state of the credit markets, including mortgages, home equity loans and consumer credit; changes in tax rates and policy; weather; natural disasters; climate change; acts of terrorism or violence, including active shooter situations; public health issues, including pandemics and quarantines and related shut-downs, re-openings, or other actions by government regulators or others; military conflicts or acts of war, as well as any related sanctions or other government or private responses; and civil unrest, 

Table of Contents 

could further adversely affect demand for our products and services, our costs of doing business, and our financial performance. Certain merchandise categories have been impacted by higher inflation than that which we have experienced in recent years due to, among other things, the continuing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, related global supply chain disruptions, and the uncertain economic and geopolitical environment. If inflation increases costs beyond our ability to control, we may not be able to adjust prices or use our portfolio strategy to sufficiently offset the effect without negatively impacting consumer demand or our gross margin. Further, our MRO customers, who have higher spend and longer-term relationships than a typical retail customer, primarily use trade credit to finance their purchases, and some of our Pros use trade credit in order to purchase our products. As a result, their ability to pay is highly dependent on the economic strength of the industry in their area. If these customers are unable to repay the trade credit from us, we may face greater default risk, which could reduce our cash flow and adversely affect our results of operations. 

The continuing impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic are highly unpredictable, volatile, and uncertain, and could adversely affect our business operations, demand for our products and services, our costs of doing business, availability of labor, access to inventory, supply chain operations, our ability to predict future performance, our exposure to litigation, and our financial performance, among other things. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant public health concerns as well as economic disruption, uncertainty, and volatility, all of which have impacted and are expected to continue to impact our business. While we have taken numerous steps to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on our results of operations, there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. Even as efforts to contain the pandemic, including vaccinations, have fostered progress, and as some restrictions have relaxed, new variants of the virus have caused additional outbreaks, which has introduced additional uncertainty and volatility. Due to numerous uncertainties and factors beyond our control, we are unable to predict the impact that the pandemic and recovery efforts will have going forward on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. These factors and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: 

&#8226; the severity and duration of the pandemic, including whether there are additional &#8220;waves&#8221; or other continued periods of increases or spikes in the number of COVID-19 cases (including those caused by current or future mutations of the virus or related variants) in future periods in areas in which we or our suppliers operate; 

&#8226; the rapidly changing and fluid circumstances caused by the pandemic and efforts to contain and recover from it and our ability to respond quickly enough or appropriately to those circumstances; 

&#8226; the duration and degree of governmental, business or other actions in response to the pandemic, including but not limited to quarantine or shut-down measures and other governmental orders; masking, vaccination or testing requirements; restrictions on our operations up to and including complete or partial closure of our stores, facilities, and distribution and fulfillment centers; economic measures; access to unemployment compensation; fiscal policy changes; or additional measures that may yet be enacted; 

&#8226; the health of, and effect of the pandemic on, our associates and our ability to maintain staffing needs to effectively operate our business, including the impact of and uncertainty related to vaccination or testing efforts; 

&#8226; changes in labor markets affecting us and our suppliers, including labor shortages; 

&#8226; evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty, unemployment rates, inflation and deflation, rising interest rates, and recessionary pressures; 

&#8226; the impact of the pandemic and related economic uncertainty on consumer confidence, economic well-being, spending, and shopping behaviors, both during and after the pandemic; 

&#8226; impacts &#8211; financial, operational or otherwise &#8211; on our supply chain, including manufacturers or suppliers of our products and logistics or transportation providers, and on our service providers, subcontractors, or other business partners; 

&#8226; unknown consequences on our business performance and strategic initiatives stemming from the substantial investment of time and other resources to the pandemic response; 

&#8226; the incremental costs of doing business during and/or after the pandemic, including the potential costs of ongoing testing requirements; 

&#8226; volatility in the credit and financial markets during and after the pandemic; 

&#8226; the effects on our internal control environment and data security as a result of the remote and hybrid work environment; 

Table of Contents 

&#8226; the impact of regulatory and judicial changes in liability for workers&#8217; compensation; 

&#8226; potential increases in insurance premiums, medical claims costs, and workers&#8217; compensation claim costs; 

&#8226; the availability of, and prevalence of access to, effective medical treatments and vaccines for COVID-19; 

&#8226; the impact of litigation or claims from customers, associates, suppliers, regulators or other third parties relating to COVID-19 or our actions in response thereto; 

&#8226; the pace and extent of recovery as the pandemic subsides; and 

&#8226; the long-term impact of the pandemic on our business even after the pandemic subsides. 

In addition, we have seen an increase in spending on home improvement products and projects during the pandemic. As the pandemic subsides, customers may shift more of their spending away from home improvement and back to other areas, which may have an adverse impact on our sales. 

The above factors and uncertainties, or others of which we are not currently aware, may result in adverse impacts to our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition. In addition to the factors above, the COVID-19 pandemic has subjected our business to a number of risks, including, but not limited to those discussed below and elsewhere in these Risk Factors: 

Associate and Customer Safety-Related Risks . In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken a number of actions across our business to help protect our associates, customers, and others in the communities we serve. These measures included, among other things, increased cleaning and sanitizing measures; physical and social distancing efforts; continuing curbside pickup from stores; and modification of certain annual merchandising events. In certain jurisdictions, we temporarily ceased sales or delayed commencement of certain in-home services deemed non-essential early in the pandemic, and we may have to do so again or in other jurisdictions. Several of these actions adversely impacted our sales, and they may continue to do so going forward. We also took other steps to support our associates, including expanding certain compensation and benefits to help alleviate some of the challenges our associates were facing as a result of COVID-19. While we have transitioned from many of these temporary pay and benefits programs, the actions that we have taken in response to the pandemic resulted in significant incremental costs, and we expect that we will continue to incur additional costs due to the pandemic going forward, which in turn may have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 

The health and safety of our associates and customers are of primary concern to our management team. However, due to the unpredictable nature of COVID-19 and the consequences of our actions, we may see unexpected outcomes from our added safety measures or from rolling back safety measures as conditions evolve. For example, if we do not respond appropriately to the pandemic, or if our customers or associates do not participate in social distancing, vaccination efforts, and other safety measures, or if rolling back safety measures results in additional outbreaks, the well-being of our associates and customers could be at risk. Furthermore, any failure to appropriately respond, or the perception of an inadequate response, could cause reputational harm to our brand and/or subject us to claims and litigation from associates, customers, suppliers, regulators or other third parties. Additionally, we have faced, and may continue to face, periodic labor shortages at our stores and facilities due to COVID-19, which can result in modifications to our operations including temporary closures and negatively impact our business, costs and results of operations. 

Additionally, some jurisdictions have taken measures intended to expand the availability of workers&#8217; compensation or to change the presumptions applicable to workers compensation measures. These actions may increase our exposure to workers&#8217; compensation claims and increase our cost of insurance. 

Information Technology-Related Risks . As a result of the pandemic and related quarantines, shut-down orders, and similar restrictions, we have experienced increased demand for online purchases of products. While we have managed this increased volume to date without interruption, there are no assurances that we will continue to be able to do so. We have also had to rapidly modify certain technology systems to support our interconnected offerings in connection with the pandemic, such as the addition of curbside pickup. Disruptions, failures or other performance issues with our customer-facing technology systems, either due to increased volume, system modifications, or other factors, could impair the benefits they provide, adversely impact our sales, and negatively affect our relationship with our customers. In addition, as more business activities have shifted online as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and as many of our store support associates continue to work in a remote or hybrid environment, we face an increased risk due to the potential failure of internal or external information technology infrastructure as well as increased cybersecurity threats and attempts to breach our security networks. 

Supply Chain-Related Risks . Circumstances related to the COVID-19 pandemic have significantly impacted the global supply chain, with restrictions and limitations on business activities and impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic 

Table of Contents 

causing cost increases, labor shortages, capacity constraints, disruptions and delays. These issues, which may continue or expand depending on the progression of the pandemic, are placing strain on the domestic and international supply chain, which has affected and may continue to negatively affect the flow or availability of certain products. Customer demand for certain products has also fluctuated as the pandemic has progressed and customer behaviors have changed, which has challenged our ability to anticipate and/or adjust inventory levels to meet that demand. These factors have resulted in higher out-of-stock inventory positions in certain products as well as delays in delivering those products to our distribution and fulfillment centers, stores or customers. Even if we are able to find alternate sources for certain products, they may cost more or require us to incur higher transportation costs, which could adversely impact our profitability and financial condition. Similarly, increased demand for online purchases of products has impacted our fulfillment operations, as well as those of our third-party carriers, resulting in delays in delivering products to customers. The operation of our distribution and fulfillment centers is crucial to our business operations. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, labor shortages at and temporary closures of some of our distribution and fulfillment centers, and any such labor shortages or closures, whether temporary or sustained, may adversely impact the flow or availability of products to our stores and customers. Any of these circumstances could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales, increased supply chain costs, or damage to our reputation. 

To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic and related recovery efforts continue to adversely affect the U.S. and global economy and/or to adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition, it may also have the effect of heightening other risks described in this section and other SEC filings, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, brand and reputation, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, technology systems disruption, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, litigation, and regulatory requirements. 

Our costs of doing business could increase as a result of changes in, expanded enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state or local laws and regulations. 

We are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern numerous aspects of our business. In recent years, a number of new laws and regulations have been adopted, there has been expanded enforcement of certain existing laws and regulations by federal, state and local agencies, and the interpretation of certain laws and regulations have become increasingly complex. These laws and regulations, and related interpretations and enforcement activity, may change as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic or social events. Changes in, expanded enforcement of, or adoption of new federal, state or local laws and regulations governing minimum wage or living wage requirements; the classification of exempt and non-exempt employees; the distinction between employees and contractors; other wage, labor or workplace regulations; healthcare; data privacy and cybersecurity; the sale, marketing, sourcing, and pricing of some of our products; transportation, logistics and interstate delivery operations, including Department of Transportation regulations on vehicles and drivers; international trade; supply chain transparency; taxes, including changes to corporate tax rates; restrictions on carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions; competition and antitrust requirements; ESG performance, transparency and reporting; unclaimed property; energy costs and consumption; or hazardous waste disposal and other environmental matters, including with respect to our installation services business, could increase our costs of doing business or impact our sales, operations or profitability. 

If we cannot successfully manage the unique challenges presented by international markets, we may not be successful in our international operations and our sales and profitability may be negatively impacted. 

Our ability to successfully conduct retail operations in, and source products and materials from, international markets is affected by many of the same risks we face in our U.S. operations, as well as unique costs and difficulties of managing international operations. Our international operations, including any expansion in international markets, may be adversely affected by local laws and customs, U.S. laws applicable to foreign operations and other foreign legal and regulatory constraints, as well as political, social and economic conditions. Risks inherent in international operations also include, among others, potential adverse tax consequences; international trade disputes, trade policy changes or potential tariffs and other import-related taxes and controls; greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights; limitations on access to ports; risks associated with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and local anti-bribery law compliance; military conflicts or acts of war, as well as any related sanctions or other government or private responses; compliance with forced labor laws; and challenges in our ability to identify and gain access to local suppliers. For example, trade tensions between the U.S. and China have led to a series of significant tariffs on the importation of certain product categories. As a portion of our retail products are sourced, directly or indirectly, outside of the U.S., major changes in tax or trade policies, tariffs or trade relations could adversely impact the cost of, demand for, and profitability of retail product sales in our U.S. locations. 

Table of Contents 

Other countries may also change their business and trade policies in anticipation of or in response to increased import tariffs and other changes in U.S. trade policy and regulations. In addition, our operations in international markets create risk due to foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations in those rates, which may adversely impact our sales and profitability. 

The inflation or deflation of commodity and other prices could affect our prices, demand for our products, our sales and our profit margins. 

Prices of certain commodity products, including lumber and other raw materials, are historically volatile and are subject to fluctuations arising from changes in domestic and international supply and demand, inflationary pressures, labor costs, competition, market speculation, government regulations, tariffs and trade restrictions, natural disasters, and periodic delays in delivery. In addition, Russia&#8217;s invasion of Ukraine and other geopolitical conflicts, as well as any related international response, may exacerbate inflationary pressures, including causing increases in commodity prices as well as fuel and other energy costs. Rapid and significant changes in commodity and other prices, such as changes in lumber prices, and our ability to pass them on to our customers or manage them through our portfolio strategy, may affect the demand for our products, our sales and our profit margins. 

We may incur property, casualty or other losses not covered by our insurance. 

We are predominantly self-insured for a number of different risk categories, such as general liability (including product liability), workers&#8217; compensation, employee group medical, automobile claims, and network security and privacy liability, with insurance coverage for certain catastrophic risks. The types and amounts of insurance may vary from time to time based on our decisions with respect to risk retention and regulatory requirements. The occurrence of significant claims, a substantial rise in costs to maintain our insurance, or the failure to maintain adequate insurance coverage could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 

Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. 

GAAP and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as asset impairment, inventories, lease obligations, self-insurance, vendor allowances, tax matters, business combinations, and litigation, are complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in accounting standards or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments, including due to uncertainty in the current environment resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. The implementation of new accounting standards could also require certain systems, internal process, internal controls, and other changes that could increase our operating costs. 

We are involved in a number of legal, regulatory and governmental enforcement proceedings, and while we cannot predict the outcomes of those proceedings and other contingencies with certainty, some of these outcomes may adversely affect our operations or increase our costs. 

We are involved in a number of legal proceedings and regulatory matters, including government inquiries and investigations, and consumer, employment, tort and other litigation that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and the outcome of some of these proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take or refrain from taking actions which could adversely affect our operations or could result in excessive adverse verdicts or results. Additionally, involvement in these lawsuits, investigations and inquiries, and other proceedings, as well as compliance with any settlements or consent decrees that result from those proceedings, may involve significant expense, divert management&#8217;s attention and resources from other matters, and impact the reputation of the Company. 

