 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ##TABLE_END

This section describes the material risks to our business, which should be considered carefully in addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the SEC. Investors should be aware that it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and that the following is 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

not meant to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. Additionally, our business is subject to general risks applicable to any company, such as economic conditions, geopolitical events, extreme weather and natural disasters. If known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, our business operations, financial condition, operating results (including components of our financial results), cash flows, prospects, reputation or credit ratings could be adversely affected now and in the future, potentially in a material way. The following discussion of risk factors contains forward-looking statements, as discussed in the Forward-Looking Information and Factors that May Affect Future Results section in this Form 10-K. 

RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS, INDUSTRY AND OPERATIONS: 

MANAGED CARE TRENDS 

Private payers, such as health plans, and other managed care entities, such as PBMs, continue to take action to manage the utilization and costs of drugs. The negotiating power of MCOs and other private third-party payers has increased due to consolidation, and they, along with governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs and encourage utilization of certain drugs, including through the use of formulary inclusion or favorable formulary placement. These initiatives have increased consumers&#8217; interest and input in medication choices, as they pay for a larger portion of their prescription costs and may cause them to favor lower-cost generic alternatives. We may fail to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement of our products, or fail to obtain such formulary placement at favorable pricing. 

The growing availability and use of innovative specialty pharmaceutical medicines that treat rare or life-threatening conditions, which typically have smaller patient populations, combined with their relative higher cost as compared to other types of pharmaceutical products, also has generated increased payer interest in developing cost-containment strategies targeted to this sector. 

Third-party payers also use additional measures such as new-to-market blocks, exclusion lists, indication-based pricing and value-based pricing/contracting to improve their cost containment efforts. Such payers are also increasingly imposing utilization management tools, such as clinical protocols, requiring prior authorization for a branded product if a generic product is available or requiring the patient to first fail on one or more generic products before permitting access to a branded medicine. As the U.S. private third-party payer market consolidates further and as more drugs become available in generic form, we may face greater pricing pressure from private third-party payers as they continue to drive more of their patients to use lower cost generic alternatives. 

Also, business arrangements in this area are subject to a high degree of government scrutiny, and available safe harbors under applicable federal and state fraud and abuse laws are subject to change through legislative and regulatory action, as well as evolving judicial interpretations. Our approach to these arrangements may also be informed by such government and industry guidance. 

COMPETITIVE PRODUCTS 

Competitive product launches may erode future sales of our products, including our existing products and those currently under development, or result in unanticipated product obsolescence. Such launches continue to occur, and potentially competitive products are in various stages of development. We cannot predict with accuracy the timing or impact of the introduction of competitive products that treat diseases and conditions like those treated by our in-line products and product candidates. 

In addition, competition from manufacturers of generic drugs, including from generic versions of competitors&#8217; branded products that lose their market exclusivity, is a major challenge for our branded products. Certain of our products have experienced significant generic competition over the last few years. For additional information, see the Item 1. Business&#8212;Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights section in this Form 10-K. In China, we expect to continue to face intense competition by certain generic manufacturers, which may result in price cuts and volume loss of some of our products. 

In addition, our patented products may face generic competition before patent exclusivity expires, including upon the &#8220;at-risk&#8221; launch (despite pending patent infringement litigation against the generic product) by a manufacturer of a generic version of one of our patented products. Generic manufacturers have filed applications with the FDA seeking approval of product candidates that they claim do not infringe our patents or claim that our patents are not valid; these include candidates that would compete with, among other products, Ibrance and Xeljanz. Our licensing and collaboration partners also face challenges by generic drug manufacturers to patents covering products for which we have licenses or co-promotion rights. 

We may become subject to competition from biosimilars referencing our biologic products if competitors are able to obtain marketing approval for such biosimilars. 

We also commercialize biosimilar products that compete with products of others, including other biosimilar products. The entry to the market of competing biosimilars is expected to increase pricing pressures on our biosimilar products. Uptake of our biosimilars may be lower due to various factors, such as anti-competitive practices, access challenges where our product may not receive appropriate coverage/reimbursement access or remains in a disadvantaged position relative to an innovator product, physician reluctance to prescribe biosimilars for existing patients taking the innovative product, or misaligned financial incentives. 

For additional information on competition our products face, see the Item 1. Business &#8212; Competition section in this Form 10-K. 

CONCENTRATION 

We recorded direct product and/or Alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of nine products that collectively accounted for 75% of our total revenues in 2021. In particular, Comirnaty/BNT162b2 accounted for 45% of our total revenues in 2021. For additional information, see Notes 1 and 17 . If these products or any of our other major products were to experience loss of patent protection (if applicable), changes in prescription or vaccination growth rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects or safety concerns, regulatory proceedings, negative publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing competitive products, changes in labeling, pricing and access pressures or supply shortages or if a new, more effective product should be introduced, the adverse impact on our revenues could be significant. In particular, certain of our products have experienced patent-based expirations or loss of regulatory exclusivity in certain markets in the last few years, and patents covering a number of our best-selling products are, or have been, the subject of pending legal challenges. For additional information on our patents, see the Item 1. Business &#8212; Patents and Other Intellectual Property Rights section in this Form 10-K. For Comirnaty/BNT162b2 and 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

Paxlovid, while we believe that these products have the potential to provide ongoing revenue streams for Pfizer for the foreseeable future, revenues of these products following the COVID-19 pandemic may not be at the similar levels as those being generated during the pandemic. For information on additional risks associated with Comirnaty/BNT162b2 and Paxlovid, see the COVID-19 Pandemic section below. 

In addition, we sell our prescription pharmaceutical products principally through wholesalers in the U.S. For additional information, see Note 17C . If one of our significant biopharmaceutical wholesalers should encounter financial or other difficulties, it might decrease the amount of business the wholesaler does with us and/or we might be unable to timely collect all the amounts that the wholesaler owes us or at all, which could negatively impact our results of operations. In addition, we expect that consolidation and integration of pharmacy chains and wholesalers will increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers, including us. 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 

The discovery and development of new products, as well as the development of additional uses for existing products, are necessary for the continued strength of our business. Our product lines must be replenished over time to offset revenue losses when products lose exclusivity or market share, as well as to provide for earnings growth, primarily through internal R&#38;D or through collaborations, acquisitions, JVs, licensing or other arrangements. Growth depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for existing products that address unmet medical needs and receive reimbursement from payers. However, balancing current growth, investment for future growth and the delivery of shareholder return remains a major challenge. The costs of product development continue to be high, as are regulatory requirements in many therapeutic areas, which may affect the number of candidates we are able to fund as well as the sustainability of the R&#38;D portfolio. Decisions made early in the development process of a drug or vaccine candidate can have a substantial impact on the marketing strategy and payer reimbursement possibilities if the candidate receives regulatory approval. We try to plan clinical trials prudently and to reasonably anticipate and address challenges, but there is no assurance that an optimal balance between trial conduct, speed and desired outcome will be achieved. 

Additionally, our product candidates can fail at any stage of the R&#38;D process, and may not receive regulatory approval even after many years of R&#38;D. We may fail to correctly identify indications for which our science is promising or allocate R&#38;D investment resources efficiently, and failure to invest in the right technology platforms, therapeutic areas, product classes, geographic markets and/or licensing opportunities could adversely impact the productivity of our pipeline. Further, even if we identify areas with the greatest commercial potential, the scientific approach may not succeed despite the significant investment required for R&#38;D, and the product may not be as competitive as expected because of the highly dynamic market environment and the hurdles in terms of access and reimbursement. For example, our gene therapy product candidates are based on a novel technology with only a few gene therapies approved to date, which makes it difficult to predict the time and cost of development and the ability to obtain regulatory approval. Further, gene therapy may face difficulties in gaining the acceptance of patients or the medical community. 

GLOBAL OPERATIONS 

We operate on a global scale and could be affected by currency fluctuations, capital and exchange controls, global economic conditions including inflation, expropriation and other restrictive government actions, changes in intellectual property legal protections and remedies, trade regulations, tax laws and regulations and procedures and actions affecting approval, production, pricing, and marketing of, reimbursement for and access to our products, as well as impacts of political or civil unrest or military action, including the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine, terrorist activity, unstable governments and legal systems, inter-governmental disputes, public health outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, natural disasters or disruptions related to climate change. 

Some emerging market countries may be particularly vulnerable to periods of financial or political instability or significant currency fluctuations or may have limited resources for healthcare spending. As a result of these and other factors, our strategy to grow in emerging markets may not be successful, and growth rates in these markets may not be sustainable. 

Government financing and economic pressures can lead to negative pricing pressure in various markets where governments take an active role in setting prices, access criteria (e.g., through health technology assessments) or other means of cost control. For additional information on government pricing pressures, see the Item 1. Business&#8212;Government Regulation and Price Constraints section in this Form 10-K. 

We continue to monitor the global trade environment and potential trade conflicts and impediments that could impact our business. If trade restrictions or tariffs reduce global economic activity, potential impacts could include declining sales; increased costs; volatility in foreign exchange rates; a decline in the value of our financial assets and pension plan investments; required increases of our pension funding obligations; increased government cost control efforts; delays or failures in the performance of customers, suppliers and other third parties on whom we may depend for the performance of our business; and the risk that our allowance for doubtful accounts may not be adequate. 

We operate in many countries and transact in over 100 different currencies. Changes in the value of those currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, or high inflation in these countries, can impact our revenues, costs and expenses and our financial guidance. Significant portions of our revenues, costs and expenses, as well as our substantial international net assets, are exposed to exchange rate changes. 63% of our total 2021 revenues were derived from international operations, including 29% from Europe and 19% from China, Japan and the rest of Asia. Future changes in exchange rates or economic conditions and the impact they may have on our results of operations, financial condition or business are difficult to predict. For additional information about our exposure to foreign currency risk, see the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity, Capital Resources and Market Risk section within MD&#38;A. 

In addition, our borrowing, pension benefit and postretirement benefit obligations and interest-bearing investments, are subject to risk from changes in interest and exchange rates. The risks related to interest-bearing investments and borrowings and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity, Capital Resources and Market Risk section within MD&#38;A and Note 7E . For additional details on critical accounting estimates and assumptions for our benefit plans, see the Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions&#8212;Benefit Plans section within MD&#38;A and Note 11 . 

From time to time, we issued variable rate debt based on LIBOR, or undertook interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on LIBOR. The U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced in 2017 that it will no longer compel banks to submit rates used to calculate LIBOR after 2021. This deadline was extended until June 2023 for a number of key U.S. dollar benchmark maturities (including the 1-month and 3-month 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

LIBOR rates). The U.S. Federal Reserve has selected the Secured Overnight Funding Rate (SOFR) as the preferred alternate rate and the transition away from LIBOR will continue despite the extended timeline. We are planning for this transition and will amend any contracts to accommodate the SOFR rate where required. We do not expect the transition to have significant impact on our business or financial condition. 

PRODUCT MANUFACTURING, SALES AND MARKETING RISKS 

We could encounter difficulties or delays in our supply chain, product manufacturing and distribution networks, as well as sales or marketing, due to regulatory actions, shut-downs, work stoppages or strikes, approval delays, withdrawals, recalls, penalties, supply disruptions, shortages or stock-outs at our facilities or third-party facilities that we rely on, reputational harm, the impact to our facilities due to health pandemics or natural or man-made disasters, including as a result of climate change, product liability or unanticipated costs. Examples of such difficulties or delays include the inability to increase production capacity commensurate with demand; challenges related to component materials to maintain supply and/or appropriate quality standards throughout our supply network and/or comply with applicable regulations; inability to supply certain products due to voluntary product recalls (as is the case with Chantix); and supply chain disruptions at our facilities or at a supplier or vendor. In addition, we engage contract manufacturers, and, from time to time, our contract manufacturers may face difficulties or are unable to manufacture our products at the necessary quantity or quality levels. 

Regulatory agencies periodically inspect our manufacturing facilities, as well as third-party facilities that we rely on, to evaluate compliance with cGMP or other applicable requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements may subject us to possible legal or regulatory actions, such as warning letters, suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product, injunctions, debarment, product recalls, delays or denials of product approvals, import bans or denials of import certifications. 

In July and August 2021, Pfizer recalled 16 lots of Chantix in the U.S. due to the presence of a nitrosamine, N-nitroso-varenicline, at or above the FDA interim acceptable intake limit. In September 2021, Pfizer expanded its voluntary recall in the U.S. to include all lots of Chantix. We currently also have a voluntary recall across multiple markets and a global pause in shipments of Chantix. Technical solutions are being pursued to reduce nitrosamine levels in Chantix to enable return to market. Nitrosamines are impurities common in water and foods and everyone is exposed to some level of nitrosamines. In response to requests from various regulatory authorities, manufacturers across the pharmaceutical industry, including Pfizer, are evaluating their product portfolios for the potential for the presence or formation of nitrosamines. This may lead to additional recalls or other market actions for Pfizer products. 

COLLABORATIONS AND OTHER RELATIONSHIPS WITH THIRD PARTIES 

We depend on third-party collaborators, service providers, and others in the research, development, manufacturing and commercialization of our products and product candidates and also enter into JVs and other business development transactions. To achieve expected longer-term benefits, we may make substantial upfront payments as part of these transactions, which may negatively impact our reported earnings or cash flows. We rely heavily on these parties for multiple aspects of our drug development, manufacturing and commercialization activities, but we do not control many aspects of those activities. We also outsource certain services, including activities related to transaction processing, accounting, information technology, manufacturing, clinical trial recruitment and execution, clinical lab services, non-clinical research, safety services, integrated facilities management and other areas. Failure by one or more of the third-party collaborators, service providers and others to complete activities on schedule or in accordance with our expectations or to meet their contractual or other obligations to us; failure of one or more of these parties to comply with applicable laws or regulations; or any disruption in the relationships between us and these parties, could delay or prevent the development, approval, manufacturing or commercialization of our products and product candidates, expose us to suboptimal quality of service delivery or deliverables, result in repercussions such as missed deadlines or other timeliness issues, erroneous data and supply disruptions, and could also result in non-compliance with legal or regulatory requirements or industry standards or subject us to reputational harm, all with potential negative implications for our product pipeline and business. Further, our Alliance revenues will be adversely affected by the termination or expiration of collaboration and co-promotion agreements that we have entered into and that we may enter into from time to time. For information on additional risks specific to our Consumer Healthcare JV, see the Consumer Healthcare JV with GSK section below. 

COUNTERFEIT PRODUCTS 

Our reputation and promising pipeline render our medicines and vaccines prime targets for counterfeiters. Counterfeit medicines and vaccines pose a significant risk to patient health and safety because of the conditions under which they are manufactured&#8212;often in unregulated, unlicensed, uninspected and unsanitary sites&#8212;as well as the lack of regulation of their contents. Failure to mitigate this threat could adversely impact Pfizer&#8217;s patients, potentially causing them harm. This, in turn, may result in the loss of patient confidence in the Pfizer name and in the integrity of our medicines and vaccines, and potentially impact our business through lost sales, product recalls, and possible litigation. 

The prevalence of counterfeit medicines is an industry-wide issue due to a variety of factors, including the adoption of e-commerce, which increased during the COVID-19 pandemic, greatly enhancing consumers&#8217; ability to obtain prescriptions and other medical treatments via the internet in lieu of traditional brick and mortar pharmacies or authorized full-service internet pharmacies. The internet exposes patients to greater risk as it is a preferred vehicle for dangerous counterfeit offers and scams because of consumers&#8217; misplaced trust with certain e-commerce retailers coupled with the anonymity the internet affords counterfeiters. While counterfeiters generally target any medicine or vaccine boasting strong demand, we have observed heightened counterfeit and fraud attempts to our COVID-19 vaccine, as well as other products potentially utilized in the treatment of COVID-19. 

We consistently invest in an enterprise-wide strategy to aggressively combat counterfeit threats by educating patients and health care providers about the risks, investing in innovative technologies to detect and disrupt sophisticated internet offers and scams, proactively monitoring and interdicting supply with the help of law enforcement; and advising legislators and regulators. However, our efforts and those of others may not be entirely successful, and the presence of counterfeit medicines may continue to increase. 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

RISKS RELATED TO GOVERNMENT REGULATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS: 

PRICING AND REIMBURSEMENT 

U.S. and international governmental regulations that mandate price controls or limitations on patient access to our products or establish prices paid by government entities or programs for our products impact our business, and our future results could be adversely affected by changes in such regulations or policies. The adoption of restrictive price controls in new jurisdictions, more restrictive controls in existing jurisdictions or the failure to obtain or maintain timely or adequate pricing could also adversely impact revenue. We expect pricing pressures will continue globally. 

In the U.S., pharmaceutical product pricing is subject to government and public scrutiny and calls for reform, and many of our products are subject to increasing pricing pressures as a result. We expect to see continued focus by the Federal government on regulating pricing which could result in legislative and regulatory changes designed to control costs. Some states have implemented, and others are considering, patient access constraints or cost cutting under the Medicaid program, and some are considering measures that would apply to broader segments of their populations that are not Medicaid-eligible. State legislatures also have continued to focus on addressing drug costs, generally by increasing price transparency or limiting drug price increases. Measures to regulate prices or payment for pharmaceutical products, including legislation on drug importation, could adversely affect our business. For additional information on U.S. pricing and reimbursement, see the Item 1. Business &#8212; Government Regulation and Price Constraints section in this Form 10-K. 

We encounter similar regulatory and legislative issues in most other countries in which we operate. In certain markets, such as in EU member states, the U.K., Japan, China, Canada and South Korea, governments have significant power as large single payers to regulate prices, access criteria, or impose other means of cost control, particularly as a result of recent global financing pressures. For example, the QCE and VBP tender process in China has resulted in dramatic price cuts for off-patent medicines. For additional information regarding these government initiatives, see the Item 1. Business &#8212; Government Regulation and Price Constraints section in this Form 10-K. We anticipate that these and similar initiatives will continue to increase pricing pressures in China and elsewhere in the future. In addition, in many countries, with respect to our vaccines, we participate in a tender process for selection in national immunization programs. Failure to secure participation in national immunization programs or to obtain acceptable pricing in the tender process could adversely affect our business. We also anticipate pricing pressures will be amplified by COVID-19 induced budget deficits and focus on pricing for COVID-19 treatments and vaccines. 

U.S. HEALTHCARE REGULATION 

The U.S. healthcare industry is highly regulated and subject to frequent and substantial changes. Any significant efforts at the U.S. federal or state levels to reform the healthcare system by changing the way healthcare is provided or funded could have a material impact on us. For additional information on U.S. healthcare regulation, see the Item 1. Business&#8211;&#8211;Government Regulation and Price Constraints section in this Form 10-K. 

Other U.S. federal or state legislative or regulatory action and/or policy efforts could adversely affect our business, including, among others, general budget control actions, changes in patent laws, the importation of prescription drugs to the U.S. at prices that are regulated by foreign governments, revisions to reimbursement of biopharmaceuticals under government programs that could reference international prices or require new discounts, limitations on interactions with healthcare professionals and other industry stakeholders, or the use of comparative effectiveness methodologies that could be implemented in a manner that focuses primarily on cost differences and minimizes the therapeutic differences among pharmaceutical products and restricts access to innovative medicines. 

A reduction of U.S. federal spending on entitlement programs, including Medicare and Medicaid, may affect payment for our products or services provided using our products. Any other significant spending reductions or cost controls affecting Medicare, Medicaid or other publicly funded or subsidized health programs that may be implemented could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 

DEVELOPMENT, REGULATORY APPROVAL AND MARKETING OF PRODUCTS 

The discovery and development of drugs, vaccines and biological products are time consuming, costly and unpredictable. The outcome is inherently uncertain and involves a high degree of risk due to the following factors, among others: 

&#8226; The process from early discovery to design and adequate implementation of clinical trials to regulatory approval can take many years. 

&#8226; Product candidates can and do fail at any stage of the process, including as the result of unfavorable pre-clinical and clinical trial results, or unfavorable new pre-clinical or clinical data and further analyses of existing pre-clinical or clinical data, including results that may not support further clinical development of the product candidate or indication. 

&#8226; We may need to amend our clinical trial protocols or conduct additional clinical trials under certain circumstances, for example, to further assess appropriate dosage or collect additional safety data. 

&#8226; We may not be able to meet anticipated pre-clinical or clinical endpoints, commencement and/or completion dates for our pre-clinical or clinical trials, regulatory submission dates, regulatory approval dates and/or launch dates. 

&#8226; We may not be able to successfully address all the comments received from regulatory authorities such as the FDA and the EMA, or be able to obtain approval for new products and indications from regulators. 

Regulatory approvals of our products depend on myriad factors, including regulatory determinations as to the product&#8217;s safety and efficacy. In the context of public health emergencies like the COVID-19 pandemic, regulators evaluate various factors and criteria to potentially allow for marketing authorization on an emergency or conditional basis. Additionally, clinical trial and other product data are subject to differing interpretations and assessments by regulatory authorities. As a result of regulatory interpretations and assessments or other developments that occur during the review process, and even after a product is authorized or approved for marketing, a product&#8217;s commercial potential could be adversely affected by potential emerging concerns or regulatory decisions regarding or impacting labeling or marketing, manufacturing processes, safety and/or other matters, including decisions relating to emerging developments regarding potential product impurities. 

We may not be able to receive or maintain favorable recommendations by technical or advisory committees, such as the ACIP or any FDA Advisory Committee that may be convened to review our applications such as EUAs, NDAs or BLAs, which may impact the potential marketing and use of our products. Further, claims and concerns that may arise regarding the safety and efficacy of in-line products and product candidates can negatively impact product sales, and potentially lead to product recalls or withdrawals, including regulator-directed risk evaluations and 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

assessments, and/or consumer fraud, product liability and other litigation and claims. Further regulatory agency requirements may result in a more challenging, expensive and lengthy regulatory approval process than anticipated due to requests for, among other things, additional or more extensive clinical trials prior to granting approval, or increased post-approval requirements. For these and other reasons discussed in this Risk Factors section, we may not obtain the approvals we expect within the timeframe we anticipate, or at all. 

POST-AUTHORIZATION/APPROVAL DATA 

As a condition to granting marketing authorization or approval of a product, the FDA may require additional clinical trials or other studies. The results generated in these trials could result in the loss of marketing approval, changes in labeling, and/or new or increased concerns about the side effects, efficacy or safety. Regulatory agencies in countries outside the U.S. often have similar regulations and may impose comparable requirements. Post-marketing studies and clinical trials, whether conducted by us or by others, whether mandated by regulatory agencies or conducted voluntarily, and other emerging data about products, such as adverse event reports, may also adversely affect the availability or commercial potential of our products. Further, if safety or efficacy concerns are raised about a product in the same class as one of our products, those concerns could implicate the entire class; and this, in turn, could have an adverse impact on the availability or commercial viability of our product(s) as well as other products in the class. The potential regulatory and commercial implications of post-marketing study results typically cannot immediately be determined. For example, in December 2021, in light of the results from the completed required postmarketing safety study of Xeljanz, ORAL Surveillance (A3921133), the U.S. label for Xeljanz was revised. Updates include a new boxed warning for major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) and updated boxed warnings regarding mortality, malignancies and thrombosis (with corresponding updates to applicable warnings and precautions). In addition, indications for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active RA or active PsA, and patients who are two years of age and older with active polyarticular course juvenile idiopathic arthritis have been revised; Xeljanz is now indicated in patients who have had inadequate response or intolerance to one or more tumor necrosis factor blockers. In addition, at the request of the EC, the PRAC of the EMA has adopted a referral procedure under Article 20 of Regulation (EC) No 726/2004 to assess safety information relating to oral JAK inhibitors authorized for inflammatory diseases, including Xeljanz and Cibinqo, which is ongoing. We continue to work with regulatory agencies to review the full results and analyses of ORAL Surveillance and their impact on product labeling. 

The terms of our EUA for Comirnaty require that we conduct post-authorization observational studies in patients at least 5 years of age or older who received a booster dose, or other populations of interest including healthcare workers, pregnant women, immunocompromised individuals, and subpopulations with specific comorbidities. Additionally, in relation to the FDA approval for Comirnaty, we are required to complete certain postmarketing study requirements and commitments by 2024 as identified in the August 2021 approval letter. The terms of our EUA for Paxlovid require monitoring for convergence of global viral variants of SARS-CoV-2 and potential assessment of Paxlovid activity against identified global variants of interest. Additionally, in relation to the potential FDA approval for Paxlovid, we are required to complete certain other analyses and studies as identified in the December 2021 authorization letter. 

LEGAL MATTERS 

We are and may be involved in various legal proceedings, including patent litigation, product liability and other product-related litigation, including personal injury, consumer, off-label promotion, securities, antitrust and breach of contract claims, commercial and other asserted and unasserted matters, environmental, government investigations, employment, tax litigation and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Although we believe that our claims and defenses in matters in which we are a defendant are substantial, we could in the future incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 

Claims against our patents include challenges to the coverage and/or validity of our patents on various products or processes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of these matters, and a loss in any of these cases could result in a loss of patent protection for the product at issue, which could lead to a significant loss of sales of that product and could materially affect future results of operations. 

Government investigations and actions could result in substantial fines and/or criminal charges and civil penalties, limitations on our ability to conduct business in applicable jurisdictions, corporate integrity or deferred prosecution agreements and other disciplinary actions, as well as reputational harm, including as a result of increased public interest in the matter. In addition, in a qui tam lawsuit in which the government declines to intervene, the relator may still pursue a suit for the recovery of civil damages and penalties on behalf of the government. 

Our sales and marketing activities and the pricing of our products are subject to extensive regulation under the FFDCA, the Medicaid Drug Rebate Program, the FCPA and other federal and state statutes, including those discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, as well as the Anti-Kickback Statute, anti-bribery laws, the False Claims Act, and similar laws in international jurisdictions. In addition to the potential for changes to relevant laws, the compliance and enforcement landscape is informed by government litigation, settlement precedent, advisory opinions, and special fraud alerts. Our approach to certain practices may evolve over time in light of these types of developments. Requirements or industry standards in the U.S. and certain jurisdictions abroad require pharmaceutical manufacturers to track and disclose financial interactions with healthcare professionals and healthcare providers and can increase government and public scrutiny of such financial interactions. If an interaction is found to be improper, government enforcement actions and penalties could result. Like many companies in our industry, we have from time-to-time received, and may receive in the future, inquiries and subpoenas and other types of information demands from government authorities. In addition, we have been subject to claims and other actions related to our business activities, brought by governmental authorities, as well as consumers and private payers. In some instances, we have incurred significant expense, civil payments, fines and other adverse consequences as a result of these claims, actions and inquiries. Such claims, actions and inquiries may relate to alleged non-compliance with laws and regulations associated with the dissemination of product (approved and unapproved) information, potentially resulting in government enforcement action and reputational damage. This risk may be heightened by digital marketing, including social media, mobile applications and blogger outreach. 

In connection with the resolution of a U.S. government investigation concerning independent copay assistance organizations that provide financial assistance to Medicare patients, in 2018, we entered into a Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, which is effective for a period of five years. In the CIA, we agreed to implement and/or maintain certain compliance program elements to promote compliance with federal healthcare program requirements. Breaches of the CIA could result in severe sanctions against us. 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

We and certain of our subsidiaries are also subject to numerous contingencies arising in the ordinary course of business relating to legal claims and proceedings, including environmental contingencies. Amounts recorded for legal and environmental contingencies can result from a complex series of judgments about future events and uncertainties and can rely heavily on estimates and assumptions. While we have accrued for worldwide legal liabilities, no guarantee exists that additional costs will not be incurred beyond the amounts accrued. 

For additional information, including information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved in, see Note 16A . 

RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, TECHNOLOGY AND SECURITY: 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY PROTECTION 

Our success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of intellectual property, including patent, trademark, trade dress, copyright, trade secret and domain name protection laws, as well as confidentiality and license agreements, to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights. If we fail to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, we may not be able to prevent third parties from launching generic or biosimilar versions of our branded products, from using our proprietary technologies or from marketing products that are very similar or identical to ours. Our currently pending or future patent applications may not result in issued patents or be granted on a timely basis. Similarly, any term extensions that we seek may not be granted on a timely basis, if at all. For example, in May 2021, the Brazilian Supreme Court voted to invalidate Article 40 of Brazil&#8217;s Patent Law, which guaranteed a minimum 10-year patent term from patent grant, and to give retroactive effect to such decision. In addition, our issued patents may not contain claims sufficiently broad to protect us against claims regarding validity, enforceability, scope and effective term made by parties with similar technologies or products or provide us with any competitive advantage, including exclusivity in a particular product area. 

Further, legal or regulatory action by various stakeholders or governments could potentially result in us not seeking intellectual property protection for or agreeing not to enforce or being restricted from enforcing intellectual property related to our products. Discussions are ongoing at the WTO regarding the role of intellectual property in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic response. This includes a proposal that would release WTO members from their obligation under WTO-TRIPS to grant and enforce various types of intellectual property protection on health products and technology in relation to the prevention, containment or treatment of COVID-19. In May 2021 and again in November 2021, the Biden Administration called on countries to waive intellectual property protections on COVID-19 vaccines. 

The scope of our patent claims also may vary between countries, as individual countries have distinct patent laws, and our ability to enforce our patents depends on the laws of each country, its enforcement practices, and the extent to which certain countries engage in policies or practices that weaken a country&#8217;s intellectual property framework (e.g., laws or regulations that promote or provide broad discretion to issue a compulsory license). In countries that provide some form of regulatory exclusivity, mechanisms exist permitting some form of challenge to our patents by competitors or generic drug marketers prior to or immediately following the expiration of such regulatory exclusivity, and generic companies are employing aggressive strategies, such as &#8220;at risk&#8221; launches that challenge our patent rights. Most of the suits involve claims by generic drug manufacturers that patents covering our products, uses, processes or dosage forms are invalid and/or do not cover the product of the generic or biosimilar drug manufacturer. Independent actions have been filed alleging that our assertions of, or attempts to enforce, patent rights with respect to certain products constitute unfair competition and/or violations of antitrust laws. Such claims may also be brought as counterclaims to actions we bring to enforce our patents. We are also party to other patent damages suits in various jurisdictions pursuant to which generic drug manufacturers, payers, governments or other parties are seeking damages from us for alleged delay of generic entry. We also are often involved in other proceedings, such as inter partes review, post-grant review, re-examination or opposition proceedings, before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office, or other foreign counterparts relating to our intellectual property or the intellectual property rights of others. Also, if one of our patents or a competitors&#8217; patents is found to be invalid in such proceedings, generic or biosimilar products could be introduced into the market resulting in the erosion of sales of our existing products. For additional information, including information regarding certain legal proceedings in which we are involved, see Note 16A1 . Further, if we are unable to maintain our existing license agreements or other agreements pursuant to which third parties grant us rights to intellectual property, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 

We currently hold trademark registrations and have trademark applications pending in many jurisdictions, any of which may be the subject of a governmental or third-party objection, which could prevent the maintenance or issuance of the trademark. As our products mature, our reliance on our trademarks and trade dress to differentiate us from our competitors increases and, as a result, our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to prevent third parties from adopting, registering or using trademarks and trade dress that infringe, dilute or otherwise violate our rights. We seek to protect our proprietary information, including our trade secrets and proprietary know-how, by requiring our employees, consultants, other advisors and other third parties to execute proprietary information and confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationship with us. Despite these efforts and precautions, we may be unable to prevent a third-party from copying or otherwise obtaining and using our trade secrets or our other intellectual property without authorization, and legal remedies may not adequately compensate us for the damages caused by such unauthorized use. Further, others may independently and lawfully develop substantially similar or identical products that circumvent our intellectual property by means of alternative designs or processes or otherwise. 

THIRD-PARTY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CLAIMS 

A properly functioning intellectual property regime is essential to our business model. We are committed to respecting the valid intellectual property rights of other companies, but the patent granting process is imperfect. Accordingly, the pursuit of valid business opportunities may require us to challenge intellectual property rights held by others that we believe were improperly granted, including challenges through negotiation and litigation, and such challenges may not always be successful. 

Part of our business depends upon identifying biosimilar opportunities and launching products to take advantage of those opportunities, which may involve litigation, associated costs and time delays, and may ultimately not be successful. These opportunities may arise in situations where patent protection of equivalent branded products has expired or been declared invalid, or where products do not infringe the patents of others. In some circumstances we may take action, such as litigation, asserting that our products do not infringe patents of existing products or that those patents are invalid or unenforceable in order to achieve a &#8220;first-to-market&#8221; or early market position for our products. 

Third parties may claim that our products infringe one or more patents owned or controlled by them. Claims of intellectual property infringement can be costly and time-consuming to resolve, may delay or prevent product launches, and may result in significant royalty payments or damages. 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

For example, our R&#38;D in a therapeutic area may not be first and another company or entity may have obtained relevant patents before us. We are involved in patent-related disputes with third parties over our attempts to market pharmaceutical products. Once we have final regulatory approval of the related products, we may decide to commercially market these products even though associated legal proceedings (including any appeals) have not been resolved (i.e., &#8220;at-risk&#8221; launch). If one of our marketed products is found to infringe valid patent rights of a third party, such third party may be awarded significant damages or royalty payments, or we may be prevented from further sales of that product. Such damages may be enhanced as much as three-fold if we or one of our subsidiaries is found to have willfully infringed valid patent rights of a third party. 

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND SECURITY 

Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of information security could adversely affect our business. We extensively rely upon sophisticated information technology systems (including cloud services) to operate our business. We produce, collect, process, store and transmit large amounts of confidential information (including personal information and intellectual property), and we deploy and operate an array of technical and procedural controls to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of such confidential information. We have outsourced significant elements of our operations, including significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and, as a result, we manage relationships with many third-party providers who may or could have access to our confidential information. We rely on technology developed, supplied and/or maintained by third-parties that may make us vulnerable to &#8220;supply chain&#8221; style cyber-attacks. Further, technology and security vulnerabilities of acquisitions, business partners or third-party providers may not be identified during due diligence or soon enough to mitigate exploitation. The size and complexity of our information technology and information security systems, and those of our third-party providers (and the large amounts of confidential information that is present on them), make such systems potentially vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by our employees or contingent workers, providers, or malicious attackers. As a global pharmaceutical company, our systems and assets are the target of frequent cyber-attacks. Such cyber-attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including, but not limited to, industrial espionage) and expertise, including organized criminal groups, &#8220;hacktivists,&#8221; nation states and others. Due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that they may remain undetected for a period of time. While we have invested in the protection of data and information technology, our efforts may not prevent service interruptions, extortion, theft of confidential or proprietary information, compromise of data integrity or unauthorized information disclosure. Any such interruption or breach of our systems could adversely affect our business operations and/or result in the loss of confidential information or intellectual property, and could result in financial, legal, business and reputational harm to us. We maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our systems. 

RISKS RELATED TO BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT: 

BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES 

We expect to enhance our in-line products and product pipeline through various forms of business development, which can include alliances, licenses, JVs, collaborations, equity- or debt-based investments, dispositions, divestments, mergers and acquisitions. The success of these activities is dependent on the availability and accurate cost/benefit evaluation of appropriate opportunities, competition from others that are seeking similar opportunities and our ability to successfully identify, structure and execute transactions, including the ability to satisfy closing conditions in the anticipated timeframes or at all, and successfully integrate acquisitions. Pursuing these opportunities may require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which could result in increased leverage and/or a downgrade of our credit ratings. Where we acquire debt or equity securities as all or part of the consideration for business development activities, the value of those securities will fluctuate, and may depreciate. We may not control a company in which we invest, and, as a result, we will have limited ability to determine its management, operational decisions and policies. Further, while we seek to mitigate risks and liabilities of such transactions through, among other things, due diligence, there may be risks and liabilities that such efforts fail to discover, that are not disclosed to us, or that we inadequately assess. The success of any of our acquisitions will depend, when applicable, on our ability to realize anticipated benefits from integrating these businesses with us. We, for example, may fail to achieve cost savings anticipated with certain of these acquisitions, or such cost savings within the expected time frame. Similarly, the accretive impact anticipated from certain of these acquisitions may not be realized or may be delayed. Integration of these businesses may result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of ongoing business, including third-party relationships, or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies. We also may fail to generate the expected revenue growth for the acquired business. Expected revenue from acquired products and product candidates also may be constrained by developments outside of our control. Unsuccessful clinical trials, regulatory hurdles and commercialization challenges may adversely impact revenue and income contribution from products and product candidates, including those acquired in these acquisitions. 

SPIN-OFF AND COMBINATION OF UPJOHN WITH MYLAN 

We may not realize some or all of the expected benefits of the spin-off and combination (the Transactions) of the Upjohn Business with Mylan, which resulted in the creation of Viatris in November 2020, due to many factors, including, among others, strategic adjustments required to reflect the nature of our business following the Transactions, increased risks resulting from us becoming a company that is a more focused, innovative science-based biopharmaceutical products business and the possibility that we may not achieve our strategic objectives. In addition, we have agreed to provide certain transition services to Viatris, generally for an initial period of 24 months following the completion of the Transactions (with certain possibilities for extension). These obligations under the transition services agreements may divert our focus and resources that would otherwise be invested into maintaining or growing our business. 

CONSUMER HEALTHCARE JV WITH GSK 

In 2019, we and GSK combined our respective consumer healthcare businesses into a JV that operates globally under the GSK Consumer Healthcare name. Although we have certain consent, board representation and other governance rights, we are a minority owner of the JV and do not control the JV, its management or its policies. As a result, our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction depend upon GSK&#8217;s operation and management of the JV. In addition, the JV is subject to risks that are different than the risks associated with our business. Many of these risks are outside GSK&#8217;s or the JV&#8217;s control and could materially impact the business, financial condition and results of operations of the JV. 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

In June 2021, GSK announced that it intends to demerge at least 80% of its 68% ownership interest in the JV in mid-2022, subject to GSK shareholder approval. Following the demerger, the JV is expected to be an independent, listed company on the London Stock Exchange with American Depositary Receipts to be listed in the U.S., in which Pfizer would initially hold a 32% ownership interest and GSK may hold up to a 13.6% ownership interest. Notwithstanding GSK&#8217;s announcement, the demerger may not be completed within expected time periods or at all, and both the timing and success of the demerger (or any other separation and public listing transaction), will be subject to prevailing market conditions and other factors at the time of such transaction. Any future distribution or sale of our stake in the JV will similarly be subject to prevailing market conditions and other factors at the time of such transaction. Our ability to complete any such future distribution or sale may also be impacted by the size of our retained stake at the time. The uncertainty relating to any separation and public listing transactions (including the announced demerger), their implementation, their timing and their yet to be determined effects on the JV&#8217;s business may subject us and the JV to risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business and financial results. 

GENERAL RISKS: 

COVID-19 PANDEMIC 

Our business, operations and financial condition and results have been and may continue to be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic to varying degrees. The pandemic has presented a number of risks and challenges for our business, including, among others: impacts due to travel limitations and mobility restrictions; manufacturing disruptions and delays; supply chain disruptions and shortages, including challenges related to reliance on third-party suppliers resulting in reduced availability of materials or components used in the development, manufacturing, distribution or administration of our products; disruptions to pipeline development and clinical trials, including difficulties or delays in enrolling certain clinical trials, retaining clinical trial participants, accessing needed supplies, and accruing a sufficient number of cases in certain clinical trials; decreased product demand, due to reduced numbers of in-person meetings with prescribers, patient visits with physicians, vaccinations and elective surgeries, resulting in fewer new prescriptions or refills of existing prescriptions and reduced demand for products used in procedures; reduced product demand as a result of unemployment or increased focus on COVID-19 vaccination; challenges presented by reallocating personnel and R&#38;D, manufacturing and other resources to assist in responding to the pandemic; costs associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, including practices intended to reduce the risk of transmission, increased supply chain costs and additional R&#38;D costs incurred in our efforts to develop a vaccine to help prevent COVID-19 and an oral COVID-19 treatment; challenges related to our business development initiatives, including potential delays or disruptions related to regulatory approvals; interruptions or delays in the operations of regulatory authorities, which may delay potential approval of new products we are developing, potential label expansions for existing products and the launch of newly-approved products; challenges operating in a virtual work environment; increased cyber incidents such as phishing, social engineering and malware attacks; challenges related to our intellectual property, both domestically and internationally, including in response to any pressure or legal or regulatory action that could potentially result in us not seeking intellectual property protection for, licensing, or agreeing not to enforce or being restricted from enforcing, intellectual property rights related to our products, including our vaccine to help prevent COVID-19 and an oral COVID-19 treatment; challenges related to conducting oversight and monitoring of regulated activities in a remote or virtual environment; challenges related to our human capital and talent development, including challenges in attracting, hiring and retaining highly skilled and diverse workforce; challenges related to vaccine mandates; and other challenges presented by disruptions to our normal operations in response to the pandemic, as well as uncertainties regarding the duration and severity of the pandemic and its impacts, and government or regulatory actions to contain the virus or control the supply of medicines and vaccines. 

We also face risks and uncertainties related to our efforts to develop and commercialize a vaccine to help prevent COVID-19 and an oral COVID-19 treatment, as well as challenges related to their manufacturing, supply and distribution, including, among others: 

&#8226; uncertainties inherent in R&#38;D, including the ability to meet anticipated clinical endpoints, commencement and/or completion dates for clinical trials, regulatory submission dates, regulatory approval dates and/or launch dates, as well as risks associated with pre-clinical and clinical data (including the Phase 1/2/3 or Phase 4 data for BNT162b2 or any other vaccine candidate in the BNT162 program or Paxlovid or any other future COVID-19 treatment) in any of our studies in pediatrics, adolescents or adults or real world evidence, including the possibility of unfavorable new pre-clinical, clinical or safety data and further analyses of existing pre-clinical, clinical or safety data or further information regarding the quality of pre-clinical, clinical or safety data, including by audit or inspection; 

&#8226; the ability to produce comparable clinical or other results for BNT162b2 or Paxlovid, including the rate of effectiveness and/or efficacy, safety and tolerability profile observed to date, in additional analyses of the Phase 3 trial for BNT162b2 or Paxlovid and additional studies, in real-world data studies or in larger, more diverse populations following commercialization; 

&#8226; the ability of BNT162b2 or any future vaccine to prevent, or Paxlovid or any other future COVID-19 treatment to be effective against, COVID-19 caused by emerging virus variants; 

&#8226; the risk that more widespread use of the vaccine or Paxlovid will lead to new information about efficacy, safety or other developments, including the risk of additional adverse reactions, some of which may be serious; 

&#8226; the risk that pre-clinical and clinical trial data are subject to differing interpretations and assessments, including during the peer review/publication process, in the scientific community generally, and by regulatory authorities; 

&#8226; whether and when additional data from the BNT162 mRNA vaccine program, Paxlovid or other programs will be published in scientific journal publications and, if so, when and with what modifications and interpretations; 

&#8226; whether regulatory authorities will be satisfied with the design of and results from these and any future pre-clinical and clinical studies; 

&#8226; whether and when submissions to request emergency use or conditional marketing authorizations for BNT162b2 or any potential future vaccines in additional populations, for a booster dose for BNT162b2 or any potential future vaccines (including potential future annual boosters or re-vaccinations), and/or biologics license and/or EUA applications or amendments to any such applications may be filed in particular jurisdictions for BNT162b2 or any other potential vaccines, and if obtained, whether or when such EUA or licenses will expire or terminate; 

&#8226; whether and when submissions to request emergency use or conditional marketing authorizations for Paxlovid or any other future COVID-19 treatment and/or any drug applications for any indication for Paxlovid or any other future COVID-19 treatment may be filed in any jurisdiction, and if obtained, whether or when such EUA or licenses will expire or terminate; 

&#8226; whether and when any application that may be pending or filed for BNT162b2 or other vaccines that may result from the BNT162 program, Paxlovid or any other future COVID-19 treatment or any other COVID-19 program may be approved by particular regulatory authorities, which will depend on myriad factors, including making a determination as to whether the vaccine&#8217;s or drug&#8217;s benefits outweigh its known risks and determination of the vaccine&#8217;s or drug&#8217;s efficacy and, if approved, whether it will be commercially successful; 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

&#8226; decisions by regulatory authorities impacting labeling or marketing, manufacturing processes, safety and/or other matters that could affect the availability or commercial potential of a vaccine or drug, including development of products or therapies by other companies; 

&#8226; disruptions in the relationships between us and our collaboration partners, clinical trial sites or third-party suppliers, including our relationship with BioNTech; 

&#8226; the risk that other companies may produce superior or competitive products; 

&#8226; the risk that demand for any products may be reduced or no longer exist; 

&#8226; the possibility that COVID-19 will diminish in severity or prevalence, or disappear entirely; 

&#8226; risks related to the availability of raw materials to manufacture or test any such products; 

&#8226; challenges related to our vaccine&#8217;s formulation, dosing schedule and attendant storage, distribution and administration requirements, including risks related to storage and handling after delivery by us; 

&#8226; the risk that we may not be able to successfully develop other vaccine formulations, booster doses or potential future annual boosters or re-vaccinations or new variant-specific vaccines; 

&#8226; the risk that we may not be able to recoup costs associated with our R&#38;D and manufacturing efforts; 

&#8226; risks associated with any changes in the way we approach or provide research funding for the BNT162 program, Paxlovid or any other COVID-19 program; 

&#8226; challenges and risks associated with the pace of our development programs; 

&#8226; the risk that we may not be able to maintain or scale up manufacturing capacity on a timely basis or maintain access to logistics or supply channels commensurate with global demand for our vaccine or any treatment for COVID-19, which would negatively impact our ability to supply the estimated numbers of doses of our vaccine or treatment courses of Paxlovid within the projected time periods; 

&#8226; whether and when additional supply or purchase agreements will be reached; 

&#8226; uncertainties regarding the ability to obtain recommendations from vaccine or treatment advisory or technical committees and other public health authorities and uncertainties regarding the commercial impact of any such recommendations; 

&#8226; pricing and access challenges for such products; 

&#8226; challenges related to public confidence or awareness of our COVID-19 vaccine or Paxlovid, including challenges driven by misinformation, access, concerns about clinical data integrity and prescriber and pharmacy education; 

&#8226; trade restrictions; 

&#8226; potential third-party royalties or other claims related to our COVID-19 vaccine or Paxlovid; and 

&#8226; competitive developments. 

Further, the COVID-19 pandemic, and the volatile global economic conditions stemming from the pandemic, could precipitate or amplify the other risks that we identify in this Risk Factors section, which could adversely affect our business, operations and financial condition and results. 

We are continuing to monitor the latest developments regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on our business, operations and financial condition and results, and have made certain assumptions regarding the COVID-19 pandemic for purposes of our operational planning and financial projections, including assumptions regarding the duration, severity and the global macroeconomic impact of the pandemic, as well as COVID-19 vaccine and oral COVID-19 treatment supply and contracts, which remain dynamic. Despite careful tracking and planning, we are unable to accurately predict the extent of the impact of the pandemic on our business, operations and financial condition and results due to the uncertainty of future developments. In particular, we believe the ultimate impact on our business, operations and financial condition and results will be affected by the speed and extent of the continued spread of the coronavirus globally, the emergence of additional virus variants, the duration of the pandemic, new information regarding the severity and incidence of COVID-19, the safety, efficacy and availability of vaccines and treatments for COVID-19, the rate at which the population becomes vaccinated against COVID-19, the global macroeconomic impact of the pandemic and governmental or regulatory actions to contain the virus or control supply of medicines and vaccines. The pandemic may also affect our business, operations or financial condition and results in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider as presenting significant risks. 

MARKET FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR EQUITY AND OTHER INVESTMENTS 

Changes in fair value of certain equity investments need to be recognized in net income that may result in increased volatility of our income. For additional information, see Note 4 and the Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity, Capital Resources and Market Risk section within MD&#38;A. 

Our pension benefit obligations and postretirement benefit obligations are subject to volatility from changes in fair value of equity investments and other investment risk in the assets funding these plans. For additional information, see the Significant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions &#8212; Benefit Plans section within MD&#38;A and Note 11. 

COST AND EXPENSE CONTROL AND NONORDINARY EVENTS 

Growth in costs and expenses, changes in product and geographic mix and the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings, internal reorganizations, product withdrawals, recalls and other unusual events that could result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization and organizational restructuring could adversely affect future results. Such risks and uncertainties include, in particular, our ability to realize the projected benefits of our cost-reduction and productivity initiatives, other corporate strategic initiatives and any acquisitions, divestitures or other initiatives, as well as potential disruption of ongoing business. 

INTANGIBLE ASSETS, GOODWILL AND EQUITY-METHOD INVESTMENTS 

Our consolidated balance sheet contains significant amounts of intangible assets, including IPR&#38;D and goodwill. For IPR&#38;D assets, the risk of failure is significant, and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield successful products. Our ability to realize value on these significant investments is often contingent upon, among other things, regulatory approvals and market acceptance. As such, we expect that many of these IPR&#38;D assets will become impaired and/or be written off at some time in the future if the associated R&#38;D effort is abandoned or is curtailed. For goodwill, all reporting units can confront events and circumstances that can lead to a goodwill impairment charge such as, among other things, unanticipated competition, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, a significant adverse change in legal matters or in the 

##TABLE_START Pfizer Inc. 2021 Form 10-K 

##TABLE_END

business climate and/or a failure to replace the contributions of products that lose exclusivity. Our other intangible assets, including developed technology rights and brands, face similar risks for impairment. Our equity-method investments may also be subject to impairment charges that may result from the occurrence of unexpected adverse events or management decisions that impact our estimates of expected cash flows to be generated from these investments. We may recognize impairment charges as a result of a weak economic environment, events related to particular customers or asset types, challenging market conditions or decisions by management. Any such impairment charge of our intangible assets, goodwill and equity-method investments may be significant. For additional details, see the S ignificant Accounting Policies and Application of Critical Accounting Estimates and Assumptions section within MD&#38;A. 

CHANGES IN LAWS AND ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

Our future results could be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations or their interpretation, including, among others, changes in accounting standards, tax laws and regulations internationally and in the U.S. (including, among other things, any potential adoption of global minimum taxation requirements and any potential changes to existing tax law and regulations by the Biden Administration and Congress), competition laws, privacy laws and environmental laws in the U.S. and other countries. For additional information on changes in tax laws or rates or accounting standards, see the Provision/(Benefit) for Taxes on Income and New Accounting Standards sections within MD&#38;A and Note 1B . 

##TABLE_START 