 ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 

In evaluating NVIDIA and our business, the following factors should be considered in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Before you buy our common stock, you should know that making such an investment involves risks including, but not limited to, the risks described below. Any one of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation, which could cause our stock price to decline, and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Additional risks, trends and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation. 

Risks Related to Our Industry and Markets 

If we fail to meet the evolving needs of our markets, or to identify new products, services or technologies, our revenue and financial results may be adversely impacted. 

Our GPU-based visual and accelerated computing platforms address four large markets: Gaming, Professional Visualization, Data Center, and Automotive. These markets often experience rapid technological change, changes in customer requirements, new product introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. Our success depends on our ability to identify emerging industry changes and to develop new (or enhance our existing) products, services and technologies that meet the evolving needs of these markets. Such activities may require considerable technical, financial, compliance, sales and marketing investments. We devote significant resources to the development of technologies and business offerings in markets where we have a limited operating history, such as the automotive and data center markets, which presents additional risks to our business. For example, we must continue to accurately forecast demand, scale and optimize utilization in our data center business, and develop and deliver next-generation autonomous driving solutions to our partners and customers or our business could be negatively impacted. We also must continue to scale our networking business following the Mellanox acquisition by leveraging our joint product capabilities and continuing to effectively integrate company processes. We must also continue to develop the infrastructure needed to scale our business in these areas, including customer service and support, e-commerce and intellectual property, or IP, licensing capabilities. If we do not continue to evolve our business, including by developing 

market specific technologies, managing the social and environmental impact of our products and technologies, expanding the ecosystem for our current and future products and technologies, and monetizing and expanding our business in various areas, our financial results could be negatively impacted. We also must meet customer safety and compliance standards, which are subject to change, including those applicable to our automotive solutions and systems. Additionally, we continue to make considerable investments in research and development, which may not produce significant revenue for several years, if at all. If our investments are unsuccessful and we fail to develop new products, services and technologies, or if we focus on technologies that do not become widely adopted, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that our strategic direction will result in innovative products and technologies that provide value to our customers, partners, and ultimately, our shareholders. If we fail to anticipate the changing needs of our target markets and emerging technology trends, or if we do not appropriately adapt our strategies as market conditions evolve, in a timely manner to exploit potential market opportunities, our business will be harmed. 

For our products that we do not sell directly to consumers, achieving design wins is an important success factor, including for our interconnect products. Achieving design wins may involve a lengthy process in pursuit of a customer opportunity and depend on our ability to anticipate features and functionality that customers and consumers will demand. Failure to obtain a particular design win may prevent us from obtaining design wins in subsequent generations of a particular product. This could result in lost revenue and could weaken our position in future competitive bid selection processes. 

Unanticipated changes in industry standards could render our products incompatible with products developed by major hardware manufacturers and software developers. Additionally, if our products are not in compliance with prevailing industry standards, including safety standards, our customers may not incorporate our products into their design strategies. Furthermore, winning a product design does not guarantee sales to a customer or that we will realize as much revenue as anticipated, if any. 

Competition in our current and target markets could prevent us from growing our revenue. 

Our target markets remain extremely competitive, and we expect competition to intensify as current competitors expand their product and/or service offerings, industry standards continue to evolve, customer needs change and new competitors enter these markets. Our competitors' products, services and technologies may be less costly, or may offer superior functionality or better features, than ours, which may result, among other things, in lower than expected selling prices for our products. In addition, some of our competitors operate and maintain their own fabrication facilities, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, more comprehensive IP portfolios and patent protections, and greater financial, sales, marketing and distribution resources than we do. These competitors may be able to more effectively identify and capitalize upon opportunities in new markets and end user customer trends, quickly transition their products, including semiconductor products, to increasingly smaller line width geometries, and obtain sufficient foundry capacity and packaging materials, which could harm our business. In our networking business, some of our customers are also integrated circuit and switch suppliers and already have in-house expertise and internal development capabilities similar to ours. Licensing our technology and supporting such customers entails the transfer of intellectual property rights that may enable such customers to develop their own products and solutions to replace those we are currently providing to them. Consequently, these customers may become competitors to us. Further, each new design by a customer presents a competitive situation. If we are unable to successfully compete in our target markets, respond to changes in our target markets or introduce new offerings to meet the needs of this competitive environment, including in significant international markets such as China, demand for our products, services and technologies could decrease, which would cause our revenue to decline and cause our results of operations to suffer. In addition, the competitive landscape in our target markets has changed and may continue to evolve due to a trend toward consolidation, which could lead to fewer customers, partners, or suppliers, any of which could negatively affect our financial results. 

Risks Related to Our Supply and Manufacturing 

We depend on third parties and their technology to manufacture, assemble, test and/or package our products, which reduces our control over product quantity and quality, manufacturing yields, development, enhancement and product delivery schedule and could harm our business. 

We do not manufacture the silicon wafers used for our products and do not own or operate a wafer fabrication facility. Instead, we are dependent on industry-leading foundries, such as Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company Limited and Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., to manufacture our semiconductor wafers using their fabrication equipment and techniques. Similarly, we do not directly assemble, test or package our products, but instead rely on independent subcontractors. In the past we have not had and going forward we may not have long-term commitment contracts with these foundries or subcontractors. Nevertheless, we may enter into long-term procurement and capacity commitments 

as our business grows or in periods with limited availability of capacity and components in our supply chain. As our business grows, we must continue to scale and adapt our supply chain or it could have an adverse impact on our business. As a result, we face several significant risks which could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand, scale our supply chain and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results, including: 

 a lack of guaranteed supply of wafers and other components and potential higher wafer and component prices, which could be impacted by our failure to correctly estimate demand and to place orders with our suppliers in sufficient quantities and/or in a timely manner; 

 a failure by our foundries to procure raw materials or to provide or allocate adequate, or any, manufacturing or test capacity for our products; 

 a failure by our foundries to develop, obtain or successfully implement high quality, leading-edge process technologies, including transitions to smaller geometry process technologies such as advanced process node technologies and memory designs needed to manufacture our products profitably or on a timely basis; 

 a limited number of suppliers, including foundries, assembly and test providers, and memory manufacturers; 

 loss of a supplier and additional expense and/or production delays as a result of qualifying a new foundry or subcontractor and commencing volume production or testing in the event of a loss of or a decision to add or change a supplier; 

 a lack of direct control over delivery schedules or product quantity and quality; and 

 delays in product shipments, shortages, a decrease in product quality and/or higher expenses in the event our subcontractors or foundries prioritize our competitors' orders over our orders or otherwise. 

In addition, low manufacturing yields could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet customer demand, increase manufacturing costs, harm customer or partner relationships, and/or negatively impact our business operations, gross margin, revenue and/or financial results. Manufacturing yields for our products are a function of product design, which is developed largely by us, and process technology, which typically is proprietary to the foundry. Low yields may result from either product design or process technology failure. We do not know whether a yield problem will exist until our design is actually manufactured by the foundry. As a result, yield problems may not be identified until well into the manufacturing process and require us and the foundry to cooperate to resolve the problem. 

We also rely on third-party software development tools to assist us in the design, simulation and verification of new products or product enhancements, and to bring such new products and enhancements to market in a timely manner. In the past, we have experienced delays in the introduction of products and enhancements as a result of the inability of then available software development tools to fully simulate the complex features and functionalities of our products. The design requirements necessary to meet consumer demands for more features and greater functionality from our products may exceed the capabilities of available software development tools. If we miss design cycles or lose design wins due to the unavailability of such software development tools, we could lose market share and our revenues could decline. If we fail to achieve design wins for our products, our business will be harmed. 

If our products contain significant defects, we could incur significant expenses to remediate such defects, our reputation could be damaged, and we could lose market share. 

Our products, including both hardware and software offerings, are complex and may contain defects or security vulnerabilities, or experience failures or unsatisfactory performance due to any number of issues in design, fabrication, packaging, materials and/or use within a system. These risks may increase as our products are introduced into new devices, markets, technologies and applications, including into the automotive market, or as new versions are released. Some errors in our products or services may only be discovered after a product or service has been shipped or used by customers or the end users of such product. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products or services could expose our customers or end users to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that could attack our products or services. Failure of our products to perform to specifications, or other product defects, could lead to substantial damage to the products we sell directly to customers, the end product in which our device has been integrated by OEMs, ODMs, AIBs and Tier 1 automotive suppliers, and to the user of such end product. Any such defect may cause us to incur significant warranty, support and repair or replacement costs, write-off the value of related inventory, cause us to lose market share, and divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts to find and correct the issue. In addition, an error or defect in new products or releases or related software drivers after commencement of commercial shipments could result in 

failure to achieve market acceptance or loss of design wins, harm our relationships with customers and partners and harm consumers' perceptions of our brand. Also, we may be required to reimburse our customers, partners or consumers, including costs to repair or replace products in the field. A product recall, including automotive recalls or recalls due to a bug in our products, or a significant number of product returns could be expensive, damage our reputation, harm our ability to attract new customers, result in the shifting of business to our competitors and result in litigation against us, such as product liability suits. If a product liability claim is brought against us, the cost of defending the claim could be significant and would divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, and harm our business. Further, our business liability insurance may be inadequate or future coverage may be unavailable on acceptable terms, which could adversely impact our financial results. 

Risks Related to Our Operating Business 

If we fail to estimate customer demand properly, our financial results could be harmed. 

Our products are manufactured based on estimates of customers' future demand and our manufacturing lead times are very long. This could lead to a significant mismatch between supply and demand, giving rise to product shortages or excess inventory, and make our demand forecast more uncertain. We sell many of our products through a channel model, and our channel customers sell to retailers, distributors, and/or end customers. As a result, the decisions made by our channel partners, retailers, and distributors in response to changing market conditions and the changing demand for our products could impact our financial results. In order to have shorter shipment lead times and quicker delivery schedules for our customers, we may build inventory for anticipated periods of growth which do not occur, may build inventory anticipating demand that does not materialize, or may build inventory to serve what we believe is pent-up demand. In periods with limited availability of capacity and components in our supply chain, we may place non-cancellable inventory orders significantly in advance of our normal lead times, pay premiums or provide deposits to secure normal and incremental future supply, which could negatively impact our financial results. Demand for our products is based on many factors, including our product introductions and transitions, competitor announcements, and competing technologies, all of which can impact the timing and amount of our revenue. For example, our GPUs for gaming are capable of digital currency mining. Demand and use of GPUs for cryptocurrency has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to change quickly. Volatility in the cryptocurrency market, including changes in the prices of cryptocurrencies, can impact demand for our products and our ability to estimate demand for our products. Changes to cryptocurrency standards and processes including, but not limited to, the pending Ethereum 2.0 standard may also create increased aftermarket resales of our GPUs and may reduce demand for our new GPUs. Additionally, consumer behavior during the COVID-19 pandemic, such as increased demand for our Gaming, Data Center and mobile workstation and laptop products and suppressed corporate demand for desktop workstations, has made it more difficult for us to estimate future demand, and these challenges may be more pronounced in the future if and when the effects of the pandemic subside. In estimating demand, we make multiple assumptions, any of which may prove to be incorrect. If we are unable to accurately anticipate demand for our products, our business and financial results could be adversely impacted. Situations that may result in excess or obsolete inventory include: 

 changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in our target markets and/or overall economy; 

 changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market; 

 a sudden and significant decrease in demand for our products; 

 a higher incidence of inventory obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology or customer requirements; 

 our introduction of new products resulting in lower demand for older products; 

 less demand than expected for newly-introduced products; or 

 increased competition, including competitive pricing actions. 

The cancellation or deferral of customer purchase orders could result in our holding excess inventory, which could adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, because we often sell a substantial portion of our products in the last month of each quarter, we may not be able to reduce our inventory purchase commitments in a timely manner in response to customer cancellations or deferrals. We could be required to write-down our inventory to the lower of cost or net realizable value or excess inventory, and we could experience a reduction in average selling prices if we incorrectly forecast product demand, any of which could harm our financial results. 

Conversely, if we underestimate our customers' demand for our products, our foundry partners may not have adequate lead-time or capacity to increase production and we may not be able to obtain sufficient inventory to fill customers' orders on a timely basis. We may also face supply constraints caused by natural disasters or other events. In such cases, even if we are able to increase production levels to meet customer demand, we may not be able to do so in a cost-effective or timely manner. If we fail to fulfill our customers' orders on a timely basis, or at all, our customer relationships could be damaged, we could lose revenue and market share and our reputation could be damaged. 

System security and data protection breaches, as well as cyber-attacks, could disrupt our operations, reduce our expected revenue and increase our expenses, which could adversely affect our stock price and damage our reputation. 

Security breaches, computer malware, phishing, and cyber-attacks have become more prevalent and sophisticated in recent years. These threats are constantly evolving, making it increasingly difficult to successfully defend against them or implement adequate preventative measures. These attacks have occurred on our systems in the past and are expected to occur in the future. Experienced computer programmers, hackers and employees may penetrate our security controls and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information, or that of our employees or third parties. These attacks may create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. These hackers may also develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack or otherwise exploit security vulnerabilities in our products, including consumer and automotive products, where we utilize over-the-air updates to improve functionality over time. For portions of our IT infrastructure, including business management and communication software products, we rely on products and services provided by third parties. These providers may also experience breaches and attacks to their products which may impact our systems. For example, in 2020, SolarWinds Inc., one of our third party software service providers, was subject to a data security breach. To date, our investigations of this breach, which were supported by a third party expert, have not identified any adverse impact to NVIDIA. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, such as actions by an employee with access to our systems. To defend against security threats, both to our internal systems and those of our customers, we must continuously engineer more secure products and enhance security and reliability features, which may result in increased expenses. We must also continue to develop security measures within NVIDIA, ensure our suppliers have appropriate security measures in place, and continue to meet the evolving security requirements of our customers or our business could be negatively impacted. 

Actual or perceived breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our partners, our customers or third parties could expose us and the parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability, paying damages, regulatory inquiries or actions, damage to our brand and reputation or other harm to our business. Our efforts to prevent and overcome these challenges could increase our expenses and may not be successful. We may experience interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and interrupt other critical functions. Delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers as a result of these disruptions could adversely affect our financial results, stock price and reputation. 

Business disruptions could harm our business, lead to a decline in revenues and increase our costs. 

Our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, outages at cloud service providers, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, cyber-attacks, terrorist attacks, medical epidemics or pandemics (including, but not limited to, COVID-19) and other natural or man-made disasters, catastrophic events or climate change. The occurrence of any of these disruptions could harm our business and result in significant losses, a decline in revenue and an increase in our costs and expenses. Any of these business disruptions could require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Such risks are discussed further in the risk factor "The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our business and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations." Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our research and development activities, are located in California, and other critical business operations, finished goods inventory, and some of our suppliers are located in Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. In addition, a large portion of our current data center capacity is located in California, making our operations vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in these geographical areas. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, Israel and Korea. Additionally, a significant portion of our finished goods product distribution occurs through Hong Kong, Israel and Taiwan. Geopolitical change or changes in government regulations and policies in the United States or abroad may result in changing regulatory requirements, trade policies, import duties and economic disruptions that could impact our operating strategies, product demand, access to global markets, hiring, and profitability. In particular, revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement 

could result in increased taxation, trade sanctions, the imposition of import duties or tariffs, restrictions and controls on imports or exports, or other retaliatory actions, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans or impact the timing of our shipments. For example, regulations to implement the Export Control Reform Act of 2018 could have an adverse effect on our business plans. Catastrophic events can also have an impact on third-party vendors who provide us critical infrastructure services for IT and research and development systems and personnel. In addition, geopolitical and domestic political developments, such as existing and potential trade wars, political or social unrest, elections and post-election developments, and other events beyond our control, can increase levels of political and economic unpredictability globally and increase the volatility of global financial markets. Political instability, changes in government or adverse political developments in or around any of the major countries in which we do business would also likely harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations could be harmed if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, high heat events or water shortages, other negative impacts from climate change, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. The ultimate impact on us, our third-party foundries and other suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown. In the event a major earthquake or other disaster or catastrophic event affects us or the third-party systems on which we rely, our business could be harmed as a result of declines in revenue, increases in expenses, substantial expenditures and time spent to fully resume operations. All of these risks and conditions could materially adversely affect our future sales and operating results. 

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our business and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 

COVID-19 has spread worldwide, resulting in government authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the disease, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and shutdowns. These measures have impacted, and may further impact, our workforce and operations, the operations of our customers and our partners, and those of our respective vendors and suppliers (including our subcontractors and third-party contract manufacturers). Our critical business operations, including our headquarters, most of our finished goods inventory and many of our key suppliers are located in regions which have been impacted by COVID-19. Our customers and suppliers worldwide have also been affected and may continue to be affected by COVID-19 related restrictions and closures. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has increased economic and demand uncertainty. It continues to affect our business in both positive and negative ways, and there is uncertainty around their duration and impact. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021, our Gaming and Data Center market platforms benefited from stronger demand as people continue to work, learn, and play from home. Our Professional Visualization market platform benefited from work-from-home trends in mobile workstations and desktop workstation demand has started to recover, although not back to pre-COVID levels. In our Automotive market platform, COVID-19 did not have a significant impact on demand in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2021. In some regions, markets, or industries, where COVID-19 has driven an increase in sales for our products, the demand may not be sustainable if conditions change. Additionally, stronger demand globally has limited the availability of capacity and components in our supply chain, particularly in Gaming, which could cause us to order an excess amount if demand changes, pay higher prices, or limit our ability to obtain supply at necessary levels or at all. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, the timing and overall demand from customers and the availability of supply chain, logistical services and component supply may have a material net negative impact on our business and financial results. 

The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including Taiwan, China, Hong Kong, Israel and Korea. A significant portion of our finished goods product distribution occurs through Hong Kong, Israel and Taiwan. Additionally, our headquarters is located in California. Each of these countries and locations has been affected by the pandemic and has taken measures to try to contain it, including restrictions on manufacturing facilities, commerce, travel, on our support operations or workforce, or on our customers, partners, vendors and suppliers. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the impact of such measures and potential future measures. Such measures, as well as restrictions or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability or increased cost of air transport, port closures and increased border controls or closures, could limit our capacity to meet customer demand and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 

The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices (including employee travel, mandatory work-from-home policies and cancellation of physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as required by government authorities and regulations or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners and suppliers. Most of our employees continue to work remotely. There is no 

certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the disease, and our ability to perform critical functions could be harmed. 

While the extent and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic on the global economy and our business is difficult to assess or predict, the pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to result in, significant disruption of global financial markets, which may reduce our ability to access capital or our customers' ability to pay us for past or future purchases, which could negatively affect our liquidity. A recession or financial market correction resulting from the lack of containment and spread of COVID-19 could impact overall technology spending, adversely affecting demand for our products, our business and the value of our common stock. 

The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or a similar health epidemic is highly uncertain and subject to change. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute our business strategies and initiatives in the expected time frame, will depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the duration and continued spread of the pandemic, its severity, the actions to contain the disease or treat its impact, availability of vaccines or other treatments, further related restrictions on travel, and the duration, timing and severity of the impact on customer spending, including any recession resulting from the pandemic, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. An extended period of global supply chain and economic disruption as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could have a material negative impact on our business, results of operations, access to sources of liquidity and financial condition, though the full extent and duration is uncertain. 

We may not be able to realize the potential financial or strategic benefits of business acquisitions or investments, including the Mellanox acquisition and the planned Arm acquisition, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquisition targets, which could hurt our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products. 

We have in the past acquired and invested in, and may continue to acquire and invest in, other businesses that offer products, services and technologies that we believe will help expand or enhance our existing products, strategic objectives and business. We completed our acquisition of Mellanox for approximately $7 billion in April 2020. In September 2020, we announced our agreement to acquire all allotted and issued ordinary shares of Arm in a transaction valued at $40 billion. The Mellanox acquisition, the planned Arm acquisition and future acquisitions or investments involve significant challenges and risks, and could impair our ability to grow our business, develop new products or sell our products, and ultimately could have a negative impact on our growth or our financial results. Given that our resources are limited, our decision to pursue a transaction has opportunity costs; accordingly, if we pursue a particular transaction, we may need to forgo the prospect of entering into other transactions that could help us achieve our strategic objectives. Furthermore, if we are unable to complete acquisitions in a timely manner, including due to delays in obtaining regulatory approvals, we may be unable to pursue other transactions, we may not be able to retain critical talent from the target company, technology may evolve, making the acquisition less attractive, and other changes can take place which could jeopardize or reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction and negatively impact our business. In addition, we have made and may in the future make strategic investments in private companies and may not realize a return on our investments. Additional risks related to the Mellanox acquisition, the planned Arm acquisition and other acquisitions or strategic investments include, but are not limited to: 

 difficulty in combining the technology, products, or operations of the acquired business with our business; 

 difficulty in integrating and retaining the acquired workforce, including key employees; 

 diversion of capital and other resources, including management's attention; 

 assumption of liabilities and incurring amortization expenses, impairment charges to goodwill or write-downs of acquired assets; 

 integrating financial forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles; 

 coordinating and integrating operations in countries in which we have not previously operated; 

 acquiring business challenges and risks, including, but not limited to, disputes with management and integrating international operations and joint ventures; 

 difficulty in realizing a satisfactory return, if any return at all; 

 difficulty in obtaining or inability to obtain governmental and regulatory consents and approvals, other approvals or financing; 

 the potential impact of with complying with governmental or other regulatory restrictions placed on an acquisition; 

 the potential impact on our stock price and financial results if we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for an acquisition, are required to pay reverse breakup fees or are otherwise unable to close an acquisition; 

 failure and costs associated with the failure to consummate a proposed acquisition or other strategic investment; 

 legal proceedings initiated as a result of an acquisition or investment; 

 the potential for our acquisitions to result in dilutive issuances of our equity securities; 

 the potential variability of the amount and form of any performance-based consideration; 

 uncertainties and time needed to realize the benefits of an acquisition or strategic investment, if at all; 

 negative changes in general economic conditions in the regions or the industries in which we or our target operate; 

 the need to determine an alternative strategy if an acquisition does not meet our expectations; 

 potential failure of our due diligence processes to identify significant issues with the acquired assets or company; and 

 impairment of relationships with, or loss of our or our target's employees, vendors and customers, as a result of our acquisition or investment. 

We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our partner network and our revenue could be adversely affected if we lose or are prevented from selling to any of these customers. 

We receive a significant amount of our revenue from a limited number of customers within our distribution and partner network. With several of these distributors and partners, we are selling multiple target market platforms through their channels. Our operating results in the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales within our partner network, as well as the ability of these partners to sell products that incorporate our processors. In the future, these partners may decide to purchase fewer products than they did in the past, not to incorporate our products into their ecosystem, or to alter their purchasing patterns in some other way, particularly because: 

 most of our sales are made on a purchase order basis, which permits our customers to cancel, change or delay product purchase commitments with little or no notice to us and without penalty; 

 our partners may develop their own solutions; 

 our customers may purchase products from our competitors; or 

 our partners may discontinue sales or lose market share in the markets for which they purchase our products. 

We could also be restricted from selling our products or providing our technology and services due to U.S. trade restrictions. The loss of any of our large customers, a significant reduction in purchases by them, or our inability to sell to a customer due to U.S. trade restrictions would likely harm our financial condition and results of operations, and any difficulties in collecting accounts receivable could harm our operating results and financial condition. 

We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments and obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers. In the future, we may have to record additional provisions or write-offs and/or defer revenue on certain sales transactions, which could negatively impact our financial results, and we may not be able to acquire credit insurance on the credit we extend to these customers or in amounts that we deem sufficient. 

We are subject to risks and uncertainties associated with international operations, including adverse economic conditions, which may harm our business. 

We conduct our business worldwide and we have offices in various countries outside of the United States. Our semiconductor wafers are manufactured, assembled, tested and packaged by third parties located outside of the United States. We also generate a significant portion of our revenue from sales outside the United States. We allocate revenue 

to individual countries based on the location to which the products are initially billed even if our customers' revenue is attributable to end customers that are located in a different location. Revenue from sales outside of the United States accounted for 81% of total revenue for fiscal year 2021, 92% for fiscal year 2020 and 87% for fiscal year 2019. Revenue from billings to China, including Hong Kong, was 23% of our revenue for fiscal year 2021. Additionally, as of January 31, 2021, approximately 53% of our employees were located outside of the United States. The global nature of our business subjects us to a number of risks and uncertainties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: 

 international economic and political conditions and other political tensions between countries in which we do business; 

 unexpected changes in, or impositions of, legislative or regulatory requirements, including changes in tax laws and employee safety and health regulations and those applicable to business acquisitions; 

 differing legal standards with respect to protection of intellectual property and employment practices; 

 local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; 

 exporting or importing issues related to export or import restrictions, including deemed export restrictions, tariffs, quotas and other trade barriers and restrictions; 

 disruptions of capital and trading markets and currency fluctuations; 

 increased costs due to imposition of climate change regulations, such as carbon taxes, fuel or energy taxes, and pollution limits; and 

 natural disasters, public health issues (including the COVID-19 pandemic discussed further in the risk factor "The COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact our business and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations," above), and other catastrophic events. 

If our sales outside of the United States are delayed or cancelled because of any of the above factors, our revenue may be negatively impacted. 

We are subject to laws and regulations worldwide that differ among jurisdictions, affecting our operations in areas including, but not limited to: IP ownership and infringement; tax; import and export requirements; anti-corruption; foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions; data privacy requirements; competition; advertising; employment; product regulations; environment, health, and safety requirements; and consumer laws. Compliance with such requirements can be onerous and expensive, and may otherwise impact our business operations negatively. Expanding privacy legislation and compliance costs of privacy-related and data protection measures could adversely affect our customers and their products and services, which could in turn reduce demand for our products used for those workloads. 

Although we have policies, controls, and procedures designed to help ensure compliance with applicable laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, suppliers, or agents will not violate such laws or our policies. Violations of these laws and regulations can result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. The technology industry is subject to intense media, political, and regulatory scrutiny, which can increase our exposure to government investigations, legal actions, and penalties. 

Adverse changes in global, regional or local economic conditions, including recession or slowing growth, changes or uncertainty in fiscal, monetary, or trade policy, higher interest rates, tighter credit, inflation, lower capital expenditures by businesses including on IT infrastructure, increases in unemployment, and lower consumer confidence and spending, periodically occur. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty. It is likely that the continued spread of COVID-19 will cause an economic slowdown, and it is possible that it could cause a global recession. Adverse changes in economic conditions, including as a result of the pandemic, can significantly harm demand for our products and make it more challenging to forecast our operating results and make business decisions, including regarding prioritization of investments in our business. A slowdown in economic growth could have adverse, wide-ranging effects on our business and financial results, including a decrease in demand for our products and technologies; a decrease in demand for the products and services of our customers or licensees; the inability of our suppliers to deliver on their supply commitments to us, our inability to supply our products to our customers and/or the 

inability of our customers or licensees to supply their products to end users; the insolvency of key suppliers, customers or licensees; delays in reporting or payments from our customers or licensees; failures by counterparties; and/or negative effects on inventories. Uncertain market conditions, difficulties in obtaining capital, or reduced profitability may also cause some customers to scale back operations, exit businesses, merge with other manufacturers, or file for bankruptcy protection and potentially cease operations, which can also result in lower sales, additional inventory or bad debt expense. Economic and industry uncertainty may similarly affect suppliers, which could impair their ability to deliver parts and negatively affect our ability to manage operations and deliver our products. These conditions may also lead to consolidation or strategic alliances among other equipment manufacturers, which could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. An economic downturn or increased uncertainty may also lead to increased credit and collectability risks, higher borrowing costs or reduced availability of capital markets, reduced liquidity, adverse impacts on our suppliers, failures of counterparties including financial institutions and insurers, asset impairments, and declines in the value of our financial instruments. 

Additionally, we have engineering facilities, corporate and sales support operations and some of our manufacturing located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel and the Middle East may directly affect our business. In addition, the State of Israel and companies with business in Israel have in the past been the subject of an economic boycott and could be in the future. Other countries have in the past, and may continue in the future, to restrict business with the State of Israel and companies with Israeli operations. Further, we are unable to ship products manufactured in Israel to certain countries. These laws and policies may have an impact on our results of operations. Any losses or damages incurred by us as a result of such events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 

If we are unable to attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees, we may not be able to execute our business strategy effectively. 

To be competitive and execute our business strategy successfully, we must attract, retain and motivate our executives and key employees. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industry is extremely competitive. In particular, hiring qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff and research and development personnel is critical to our business. We also must recruit and develop diverse talent. Additionally, changes in immigration and work permit laws and regulations or the administration or interpretation of such laws or regulations could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, or if we cannot retain key employees, our ability to develop and deliver successful products and services may be adversely affected. Additionally, competition for personnel results in increased costs in the form of cash and stock-based compensation. The interpretation and application of employment related laws to our workforce practices may result in increased operating costs and less flexibility in how we meet our workforce needs. We also must retain the key personnel hired as a result of our acquisitions, or it could reduce the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions and negatively impact our business. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. We continue to evolve our business practices in response to the COVID-19 pandemic by supporting and providing resources to our employees who are working remotely and implementing stringent safety guidelines for those who go into the essential labs and offices that remain open. If we do not continue to anticipate and address the safety and wellness needs of our employees sufficiently and/or in a timely manner, their productivity could be impacted, or we could fail to retain them. 

Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future fluctuate, and if our operating results are below the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline. 

Our operating results have in the past fluctuated and may in the future continue to fluctuate due to numerous factors. Therefore, investors should not rely on quarterly comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. 

Additional factors, other than or in addition to those described elsewhere in these risk factors, that could affect our results of operations in the future include, but are not limited to: 

 our ability to achieve volume production of our next-generation products; 

 our inability to adjust spending to offset revenue shortfalls due to the multi-year development cycle for some of our products and services; 

 fluctuations in the demand for our products related to cryptocurrencies and COVID-19, as discussed further in the risk factor "If we fail to estimate customer demand properly, our financial results could be harmed;" 

 changes in the timing of product orders due to unexpected delays in the introduction of our partners' products; 

 our ability to cover the manufacturing and design costs of our products through competitive pricing; 

 our ability to comply and continue to comply with our customers' contractual obligations; 

 product rates of return in excess of that forecasted or expected due to quality issues; 

 our ability to secure appropriate safety certifications and meet industry safety standards; 

 supply constraints for and changes in the cost of the other components incorporated into our products; 

 inventory write-downs; 

 our ability to continue generating revenue from our partner network, including by generating sales within our partner network and ensuring our products are incorporated into our partners product ecosystems, and our partner network's ability to sell products that incorporate our technologies; 

 our dependence on third party vendors and end users to adopt our products, including InfiniBand; 

 the inability of certain of our customers to make required payments to us, and our ability to obtain credit insurance over the purchasing credit extended to these customers; 

 customer bad debt write-offs; 

 any unanticipated costs associated with environmental liabilities; 

 unexpected costs related to our ownership of real property; 

 our ability to maintain and scale our business processes, information systems and internal controls; 

 changes in financial accounting standards or interpretations of existing standards; and 

 general macroeconomic or industry events and factors affecting the overall market and our target markets. 

Any one or more of the factors discussed above could prevent us from achieving our expected future financial results. Any such failure to meet our expectations or the expectations of our investors or security analysts could cause our stock price to decline or experience substantial price volatility. 

Risks Related to Regulatory, Legal, Our Common Stock and Other Matters 

Actions to adequately protect our IP rights could result in substantial costs to us and our ability to compete could be harmed if we are unsuccessful in doing so or if we are prohibited from making or selling our products. 

We have in the past, currently are, and may in the future become involved in lawsuits or other legal proceedings alleging patent infringement or other intellectual property rights violations by us, our employees or parties that we have agreed to indemnify for certain claims of infringement. An unfavorable ruling in any such intellectual property related litigation could include significant damages, invalidation of a patent or family of patents, indemnification of customers, payment of lost profits, or, when it has been sought, injunctive relief. Claims that our products or processes infringe the IP rights of others, regardless of their merit, could cause us to incur significant costs to respond to, defend, and resolve such claims, and they may also divert the efforts and attention of management and technical personnel. 

We may commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to protect our intellectual property rights. Such proceedings may increase our operating expenses, which could negatively impact our operating results. Further, we could be subject to countersuits as a result of our initiation of litigation. If infringement claims are made against us or our products are found to infringe a third party's patent or intellectual property, we or one of our indemnitees may have to seek a license to the third party's patent or other intellectual property rights. However, we may not be able to obtain licenses at all or on terms acceptable to us particularly from our competitors. If we or one of our indemnitees is unable to obtain a license from a third party for technology that we use or that is used in one of our products, we could be subject to substantial liabilities or have to suspend or discontinue the manufacture and sale of one or more of our products. We may also have to make royalty or other payments, or cross license our technology. If these arrangements are not concluded on commercially reasonable terms, our business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, the indemnification of a customer or other indemnitee may increase our operating expenses which could negatively impact our operating results. 

Our success depends in part on protecting our intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely primarily on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, licensing arrangements, and the laws of the countries in which we operate to protect our intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and even with significant expenditures we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights that are valuable to our business. The laws of certain foreign countries may not protect our products or intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. This makes the possibility of piracy of our technology and products more likely. In addition, the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information could harm our competitive position and reduce acceptance of our products; as a result, the value of our investment in research and development, product development, and marketing could be reduced. We also may face risks to our intellectual property if our employees are hired by potential competitors. We continuously assess whether and where to seek formal protection for existing and new innovations and technologies, but cannot be certain whether our applications for such protections will be approved, and, if approved, whether we will be able to enforce such protections. 

Privacy concerns relating to our products and services could damage our reputation, deter current and potential users from using our products and services, result in liability, or result in legal or regulatory proceedings. 

Our products and services may provide us with access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws and regulations. Concerns about our practices or the ultimate use of our products and services with regard to the collection, use, retention, security or disclosure of personal information or other privacy-related matters, including for use in AI, even if unfounded, could damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating results. The theft, loss, or misuse of personal data collected, used, stored, or transferred by us to run our business or by one of our partners could result in significantly increased security costs, damage to our reputation, regulatory proceedings, disruption of our business activities or increased costs related to defending legal claims. 

Worldwide regulatory authorities are considering and have approved various legislative proposals concerning data protection, which continue to evolve and apply to our business. For example, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, which required companies to meet requirements effective as of May 2018 regarding the handling of personal data, including its use, protection and the ability of persons whose data is stored to access, correct and delete such data about themselves. Failure to meet GDPR requirements could result in penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. In addition, California adopted the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, or CCPA, which took effect on January 1, 2020. The CCPA gives California residents the right to access, delete and opt-out of certain sharing of their personal information, and to receive detailed information about how it is used and shared. Violations of the CCPA carry substantial civil penalties and the law creates a private right of action for certain data breaches, which is expected to increase data breach litigation. California's privacy laws will expand substantially effective January 1, 2023 as a result of California voters approving the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020, or CPRA, in the November 2020 election. The CPRA will, among other things, restrict use of certain categories of sensitive personal information; further restrict the use of cross-contextual advertising techniques; establish restrictions on the retention of personal information; expand the types of data breaches subject to the private right of action; and establish the California Privacy Protection Agency to implement and enforce the new law, as well as impose administrative fines. Since the enactment of the CCPA, more than half of the states in the United States and the United States Congress have considered proposed privacy legislation, reflecting a trend toward more stringent privacy legislation in the United States. 

The interpretation and application of consumer and data protection laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere are often uncertain and fluid, and may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data practices. If so, we may be ordered to change our data practices and/or be fined. Complying with these changing laws has caused, and could continue to cause, us to incur substantial costs, which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Further, failure to comply with existing or new rules may result in significant penalties or orders to stop the alleged noncompliant activity. 

We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities and our operating results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates. 

As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenue and expenses in different jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities in different jurisdictions. For example, we are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for our fiscal years 2018 and 2019 and under audit in the United Kingdom, Germany, Israel and India. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, tax authorities may 

disagree with certain positions we have taken, and any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount of non-income taxes imposed on our business, and harm our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Further, changes in United States federal, and state or international tax laws applicable to multinational corporations or other fundamental law changes may materially impact our tax expense and cash flows, as we experienced in fiscal year 2018 with the passage of the TCJA. 

Our future effective tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, changes in our business or statutory rates, changes in jurisdictions in which our profits are determined to be earned and taxed, changes in available tax credits, the resolution of issues arising from tax audits, changes in United States generally accepted accounting principles, adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of tax returns, increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities and in deferred tax valuation allowances, changing interpretation of existing laws or regulations, the impact of accounting for stock-based compensation and the recognition of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies within the income tax provision in the period in which they occur, the impact of accounting for business combinations, shifts in the amount of earnings in the United States compared with other regions in the world and overall levels of income before tax, changes in the domestic or international organization of our business and structure, as well as the expiration of statute of limitations and settlements of audits. Any changes in our effective tax rate may reduce our net income. 

Our business is exposed to the risks associated with litigation, investigations and regulatory proceedings. 

We currently and may in the future face legal, administrative and regulatory proceedings, claims, demands and/or investigations involving shareholder, consumer, competition and/or other issues relating to our business on a global basis. For example, we are currently defending ourselves in a shareholder lawsuit claiming that we and certain of our officers made false and/or misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand in 2017 and 2018. In addition, multiple stockholders, purporting to act on our behalf, filed derivative lawsuits seeking to assert claims on our behalf against the members of our board of directors and certain officers based on the dissemination of allegedly false and misleading statements related to channel inventory and the impact of cryptocurrency mining on GPU demand. 

Litigation and regulatory proceedings are inherently uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, including monetary damages, or an injunction stopping us from manufacturing or selling certain products, engaging in certain business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of patents. An unfavorable outcome or settlement may result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial position, and overall trends. In addition, regardless of the outcome, litigation can be costly, time-consuming, and disruptive to our operations. 

In addition, the laws and regulations our business is subject to are complex and change frequently. We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with changes in, or remedy violations of, these laws and regulations. 

Delaware law and provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws and our agreement with Microsoft Corporation could delay or prevent a change in control. 

Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested shareholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing shareholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These provisions include the following: 

 the ability of our Board of Directors to create and issue preferred stock without prior shareholder approval; 

 the prohibition of shareholder action by written consent; 

 advance notice requirements for director nominations and shareholder proposals; 

 the ability of our Board of Directors to increase or decrease the number of directors without shareholder approval; 

 a super-majority voting requirement to amend some provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; 

 the inability of our shareholders to call special meetings of shareholders; and 

 the ability of our Board of Directors to make, amend or repeal our bylaws. 

On March 5, 2000, we entered into an agreement with Microsoft in which we agreed to develop and sell graphics chips and to license certain technology to Microsoft and its licensees for use in the Xbox. Under the agreement, if an individual or corporation makes an offer to purchase shares equal to or greater than 30% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, Microsoft may have first and last rights of refusal to purchase the stock. The Microsoft provision and the other factors listed above could also delay or prevent a change in control of NVIDIA. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. 

Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial position and prevent us from implementing our strategy or fulfilling our contractual obligations. 

In March 2020, we issued $1.50 billion of the 2.85% Notes Due 2030, $1.00 billion of the 3.50% Notes Due 2040, $2.00 billion of the 3.50% Notes Due 2050, and $500 million of the 3.70% Notes Due 2060, or collectively, the March 2020 Notes. In September 2016, we issued $1.00 billion of the 2.20% Notes Due 2021 and $1.00 billion of the 3.20% Notes Due 2026, or collectively, the September 2016 Notes. 

Our indebtedness may limit our ability to use our cash flow or borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes. Additionally, our obligation to make payments related to the Notes could impact our cash balance and limit our ability to use our cash for our capital return program and our other liquidity needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, investments and other general corporate purposes. 

